<lang='en_ukraine'>
<page='en_ukraine-1'>
<text>
   Link: canonical
   Link: amphtml
   Link: alternate x-default
   Link: alternate en-gb
   Link: alternate en
   BBC Homepage
     * Skip to content
     * Accessibility Help
     * Your account
     * Home
     * News
     * Sport
     * Earth
     * Reel
     * Worklife
     * Travel
     * More menu
   More menu
   Search BBC
     * Home
     * News
     * Sport
     * Earth
     * Reel
     * Worklife
     * Travel
     * Culture
     * Future
     * Music
     * TV
     * Weather
     * Sounds
   Close menu
   BBC News
   Menu
     * Home
     * Israel-Gaza war
     * War in Ukraine
     * Climate
     * Video
     * World
     * UK
     * Business
     * Tech
     * Science
   More
     * Entertainment &amp; Arts
     * Health
     * World News TV
     * In Pictures
     * BBC Verify
     * Newsbeat
     * World
     * Africa
     * Asia
     * Australia
     * Europe
     * Latin America
     * Middle East
     * US &amp; Canada

       Ukraine war: Why Kyiv's Dnipro east bank gain could be significant

     * Published
       21 October
   Share
   close panel
   Share page
   Copy link
   About sharing
   Related Topics
     * War in Ukraine
   Ukrainian servicemen install a 'Skif' anti-tank guided missile (ATGM)
   system at an undisclosed location in the Zaporizhzhia regionImage source,
   EPA
   By Jenny Hill
   BBC News, Ukraine

   Ukrainian fighters on the front line say troops have not only crossed into
   Russian occupied territory but held a position, apparently for the first
   time, on the fiercely defended east (or left) bank of the Dnipro River in
   Kherson region.

   The development is potentially significant. Ukraine's counteroffensive
   aims to slice through Russian occupied territory, severing a land corridor
   to the Crimean peninsula which Moscow annexed - illegally - in 2014.

   In a text exchange, the 46th brigade told the BBC that troops were engaged
   in heavy fighting as they try to take full control of the village of
   Krynky.

   If successful, the force said, the settlement would give advanced units a
   base from which to launch a larger offensive aimed at dividing Russian
   troops and cutting off their supply lines.

   The US-based Institute for the Study of War (ISW) said that Ukrainian
   forces were continuing larger than usual ground operations on the east
   bank and Russian military bloggers have also noted fighting in Krynky.

   And the action is being closely scrutinised - success here would be seized
   upon by Ukraine's military chiefs. Their counteroffensive, launched in
   June, has made slow progress, with limited territorial gains.

     * Ukraine troop build-up reported across Dnipro river
     * Biden seeks 'vital' war aid for Israel and Ukraine

   But the fighters we spoke to acknowledged that, even if the troops were to
   take Krynky, a modern day "Normandy landings" style attack was unlikely.

   And they gave us a glimpse of the dangers and challenges they face,
   particularly as winter approaches.

   The 46th brigade is fighting further along the vast front line in the
   Zaporizhzhia region with the same aim in mind - to cut off Russian access
   to the Crimean peninsula.

   They told us they had just managed to partially breach the first line of
   Russian defence near the village of Verbove - and that they'd successfully
   targeted some ammunition depots and bases, but that progress was limited.

   They described heavily mined Russian fortifications and daily air attacks
   on their logistics routes without, they complained, air support of their
   own.

   Russian troops, they said, had been on the defensive but were now on the
   attack.

   And, as winter approaches, conditions are deteriorating - for both sides.

   Rainy weather is affecting the work of drones, reconnaissance equipment
   and aviation, the soldiers said. But they did not anticipate any let-up in
   the fighting.

   "Winter will not be a time for respite," they said.

   Additional reporting by Anastasiia Levchenko

Related Topics

     * War in Ukraine
     * Ukraine

More on this story

     * Ukraine troop build-up reported across Dnipro river

          * Published
            19 October
       Armed Ukrainian soldiers. Photo: October 2023
     * Biden seeks 'vital' war aid for Israel and Ukraine

          * Published
            20 October
       Joe Biden
     * Russia attacks east Ukraine stronghold of Avdiivka

          * Published
            12 October
       Ukraine's President Zelensky has shared pictures showing soldiers in
       Avdiivka

Top Stories

     * Russia confirms damage to warship in Black Sea

          * Published
            1 hour ago
     * UN says no let-up in Israeli air strikes in Gaza

          * Published
            13 hours ago
     * Russia captures key town near Donetsk

          * Published
            53 minutes ago

Features

     * Letters of forbidden love revealed in Spanish archive

       Envelopes and letters
     * Amazon drought: 'We've never seen anything like this'

       Oliveira Tikuna sitting in a canoe
     * India's power-hitting global women's cricket star

       : Harmanpreet Kaur of India poses for a portrait prior to the ICC
       Women's T20 World Cup South Africa 2023 on February 05, 2023 in
       Stellenbosch, South Africa. (Photo by Jan Kruger-ICC/ICC via Getty
       Images)
     * * 'I went into 'dad mode' after my wife was killed'

       Emma and Lee Lovell
     * 15 celebrity flops and fails of 2023

       Harrison Ford and Phoebe Waller-Bridge attend the "Indiana Jones And
       The Dial Of Destiny" photocall at the 76th annual Cannes film festival
       at Palais des Festivals on May 19, 2023 in Cannes, France
     * Why has it taken 15 years for UK to have a black Premier League ref?

       Sam Allison will become the first black referee of a Premier League
       match in 15 years when he takes charge of Sheffield United v Luton
       Town
     * The Ukrainian frontline city Russia could seize again

       Svitlana
     * In pictures: Christmas around the world

       A child kisses the feet of a statue depicting the infant Jesus Christ
       after offering prayers during Christmas Holy Mass, at Santhome
       Cathedral Basilica, in Chennai, India, 25 December 2023.
     * Nigeria’s viral ballet boy dances into elite school

       Anthony Madu in a dance studio at Elmhurst Ballet School

Elsewhere on the BBC

     * Did drinking tea save British lives?

       drinking tea
     * The 'vibecession' driving holiday mass layoffs

       Spotify
     * Why olive oil prices are soaring

       bottle

Most Read

    1. 1
       Russia confirms damage to warship in Black Sea
    2. 2
       Russia captures key town near Donetsk
    3. 3
       15 celebrity flops and fails of 2023
    4. 4
       Unaccompanied boy, 6, put on wrong US flight
    5. 5
       Hanif Kureishi: I've become a reluctant dictator
    6. 6
       Chinese chess champion suspended for bad behaviour
    7. 7
       Man held in France after mother and children killed
    8. 8
       'I went into 'dad mode' after my wife was killed'
    9. 9
       Daihatsu pauses production over safety scandal
   10. 10
       Girl, 7, with brain tumour meets Queen for tea

BBC News Services

     * On your mobile
     * On smart speakers
     * Get news alerts
     * Contact BBC News
     * Home
     * News
     * Sport
     * Earth
     * Reel
     * Worklife
     * Travel
     * Culture
     * Future
     * Music
     * TV
     * Weather
     * Sounds
     * Terms of Use
     * About the BBC
     * Privacy Policy
     * Cookies
     * Accessibility Help
     * Parental Guidance
     * Contact the BBC
     * Get Personalised Newsletters
     * Why you can trust the BBC
     * Advertise with us

   © 2023 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.
   Read about our approach to external linking.
</text>
</page>§
<page='en_ukraine-2'>
<text>
   Link: canonical
   Link: amphtml
   Link: alternate x-default
   Link: alternate en-gb
   Link: alternate en
   BBC Homepage
     * Skip to content
     * Accessibility Help
     * Your account
     * Home
     * News
     * Sport
     * Earth
     * Reel
     * Worklife
     * Travel
     * More menu
   More menu
   Search BBC
     * Home
     * News
     * Sport
     * Earth
     * Reel
     * Worklife
     * Travel
     * Culture
     * Future
     * Music
     * TV
     * Weather
     * Sounds
   Close menu
   BBC News
   Menu
     * Home
     * Israel-Gaza war
     * War in Ukraine
     * Climate
     * Video
     * World
     * UK
     * Business
     * Tech
     * Science
   More
     * Entertainment &amp; Arts
     * Health
     * World News TV
     * In Pictures
     * BBC Verify
     * Newsbeat
     * World
     * Africa
     * Asia
     * Australia
     * Europe
     * Latin America
     * Middle East
     * US &amp; Canada

        Ukraine war: Russian 'evil cannot be trusted', Zelensky tells UN

     * Published
       19 September
   Share
   close panel
   Share page
   Copy link
   About sharing
   Related Topics
     * War in Ukraine

   This video can not be played

To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser.

   Media caption,

   Zelensky: Thousands of children abducted by Russia

   By James Landale in New York &amp; Jaroslav Lukiv in London
   BBC News

   "Evil cannot be trusted," Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has told
   the UN General Assembly, as he urged the world to unite to end Russian
   aggression against his country.

   In a passionate speech in New York, Mr Zelensky said a nuclear-armed
   Moscow must be stopped from "pushing the world to the final war".

   He also accused Russia of weaponising everything from food to energy.

   Russia's full-scale invasion has prompted widespread condemnation.

   In a speech which focused heavily on the danger Russia poses to the world,
   he argued that other common challenges such as climate change can only be
   properly addressed after Moscow had been pushed back.

   "While Russia is pushing the world to the final war, Ukraine is doing
   everything to ensure that after the Russian aggression no-one in the world
   will dare to attack any nation," Mr Zelensky said to world leaders
   attending the annual General Assembly.

   He also said Russia simply had "no right to hold nuclear weapons".

   "Weaponisation must be restrained, war crimes must be punished, deported
   people must come back home, and the occupier must return to their own
   land.

   "We must be united to make it, and we will do it!" Mr Zelensky said.

   He also accused Moscow of carrying out "genocide" by abducting Ukrainian
   children.

   In March, the International Criminal Court (ICC) issued an arrest warrant
   for Russian President Vladimir Putin over the alleged unlawful deportation
   of Ukrainian children to Russia.

   Moscow has repeatedly denied Ukraine's accusations - but a number
   international experts and organisations point to a growing evidence that
   Russia has committed war crimes in Ukraine.

     * Has Russia carried out war crimes in Ukraine?
     * Ukraine mothers go behind enemy lines to save stolen children
     * Ukraine and Kenya plan 'grain hub' for East Africa

   This video can not be played

To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser.

   Media caption,

   Watch: Leaders show different approaches on Ukraine at Unga

   The Ukrainian president went on to warn against "shady deals" to try to
   end the war - the biggest in Europe since World War Two - on unfair terms.

   But his key point was to warn the international community that the outcome
   of the war would affect everyone.

   Russia's goal, he said, was to turn Ukraine into "a weapon against you,
   against the rules-based international order".

   The peace formula that he had been outlining for months was, he said, not
   just for Ukraine, but also the rest of the world.

   So the pitch was clear and aimed squarely at countries - many of them in
   the so-called "Global South" including Brazil and India - which have thus
   far stayed on the sidelines.

   Grain being collected during a harvest near Kyiv, Ukraine. Photo: July
   2023Image source, EPA
   Image caption,
   President Zelensky accused Russia of weaponising everything from food to
   energy

   A number of nations have even strengthened their economic ties with the
   Kremlin.

   Western powers have been rushing around the UN trying to address those
   countries' wider concerns about development issues and climate change.

   Earlier in the day, the Ukrainian leader applauded Joe Biden's speech, in
   which his US counterpart warned of grave consequences if Russia's
   aggression was not stopped.

   "Russia believes that the world will grow weary and allow it to brutalise
   Ukraine without consequence. If we allow Ukraine to be carved up, is the
   independence of any nation secure?" Mr Biden said.

   Meanwhile, Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi - whose country has provided
   combat drones to Russia and is seen as Moscow's key ally - accused
   Washington of escalating the war in Ukraine.

   "The United States of America has fanned the flames of violence in Ukraine
   in order to weaken the European countries. This is a long-term plan,
   unfortunately," he told the gathering in New York.

Related Topics

     * War in Ukraine
     * Volodymyr Zelensky
     * Russia
     * UN General Assembly
     * United Nations

More on this story

     * Zelensky: Thousands of children abducted by Russia. Video,
       00:01:21Zelensky: Thousands of children abducted by Russia

          * Published
            19 September
       1:21
       Zelensky
     * Ukraine and Kenya plan 'grain hub' for East Africa

          * Published
            20 September
       President Zelensky meeting President Ruto
     * Is Ukraine's counter-offensive making progress?

          * Published
            18 September
       Counter offensive index
     * Has Russia carried out war crimes in Ukraine?

          * Published
            20 July
       A protester in Paris holds a sign accusing Vladimir Putin of war
       crimes
     * Is Ukraine trying to retake Crimea?

          * Published
            16 September
       View of a damaged Russian ship following a Ukrainian missile attack on
       Sevastopol

Top Stories

     * Russia confirms damage to warship in Black Sea

          * Published
            1 hour ago
     * UN says no let-up in Israeli air strikes in Gaza

          * Published
            13 hours ago
     * Russia captures key town near Donetsk

          * Published
            53 minutes ago

Features

     * Letters of forbidden love revealed in Spanish archive

       Envelopes and letters
     * Amazon drought: 'We've never seen anything like this'

       Oliveira Tikuna sitting in a canoe
     * India's power-hitting global women's cricket star

       : Harmanpreet Kaur of India poses for a portrait prior to the ICC
       Women's T20 World Cup South Africa 2023 on February 05, 2023 in
       Stellenbosch, South Africa. (Photo by Jan Kruger-ICC/ICC via Getty
       Images)
     * * 'I went into 'dad mode' after my wife was killed'

       Emma and Lee Lovell
     * 15 celebrity flops and fails of 2023

       Harrison Ford and Phoebe Waller-Bridge attend the "Indiana Jones And
       The Dial Of Destiny" photocall at the 76th annual Cannes film festival
       at Palais des Festivals on May 19, 2023 in Cannes, France
     * Why has it taken 15 years for UK to have a black Premier League ref?

       Sam Allison will become the first black referee of a Premier League
       match in 15 years when he takes charge of Sheffield United v Luton
       Town
     * The Ukrainian frontline city Russia could seize again

       Svitlana
     * In pictures: Christmas around the world

       A child kisses the feet of a statue depicting the infant Jesus Christ
       after offering prayers during Christmas Holy Mass, at Santhome
       Cathedral Basilica, in Chennai, India, 25 December 2023.
     * Nigeria’s viral ballet boy dances into elite school

       Anthony Madu in a dance studio at Elmhurst Ballet School

Elsewhere on the BBC

     * Did drinking tea save British lives?

       drinking tea
     * The 'vibecession' driving holiday mass layoffs

       Spotify
     * Why olive oil prices are soaring

       bottle

Most Read

    1. 1
       Russia confirms damage to warship in Black Sea
    2. 2
       Russia captures key town near Donetsk
    3. 3
       15 celebrity flops and fails of 2023
    4. 4
       Unaccompanied boy, 6, put on wrong US flight
    5. 5
       Hanif Kureishi: I've become a reluctant dictator
    6. 6
       Chinese chess champion suspended for bad behaviour
    7. 7
       Man held in France after mother and children killed
    8. 8
       'I went into 'dad mode' after my wife was killed'
    9. 9
       Daihatsu pauses production over safety scandal
   10. 10
       Girl, 7, with brain tumour meets Queen for tea

BBC News Services

     * On your mobile
     * On smart speakers
     * Get news alerts
     * Contact BBC News
     * Home
     * News
     * Sport
     * Earth
     * Reel
     * Worklife
     * Travel
     * Culture
     * Future
     * Music
     * TV
     * Weather
     * Sounds
     * Terms of Use
     * About the BBC
     * Privacy Policy
     * Cookies
     * Accessibility Help
     * Parental Guidance
     * Contact the BBC
     * Get Personalised Newsletters
     * Why you can trust the BBC
     * Advertise with us

   © 2023 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.
   Read about our approach to external linking.
</text>
</page>§
<page='en_ukraine-3'>
<text>
   Link: profile
   Link: canonical
   Link: shortlink
   Skip to content
   An official website of the United States Government Here's how you know

   Official websites use .gov

   A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the
   United States.

   Secure .gov websites use HTTPS

   A lock ( ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website.
   Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
     * Newsroom
     * Business
     * Employees
     * Job Seekers
     * Students
     * Travelers
     * Visas
   Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Flickr GovDelivery
     * Menu
     * [IMG]State Department Home
     * search
     * State Department Home
     * Policy Issues
          * Back
          * Policy Issues

            Anti-Corruption and Transparency
            Arms Control and Nonproliferation
            Climate and Environment
            Climate Crisis
            Combating Drugs and Crime
            Countering Terrorism
            COVID-19 Response and Recovery
            Cyber Issues
            Disarming Disinformation
            Economic Prosperity and Trade Policy
            Energy
            Global Health
            Global Women’s Issues
            Holding Russia and Belarus to Account
            Human Rights and Democracy
            Human Trafficking
            The Ocean and Polar Affairs
            Refugee and Humanitarian Assistance
            Science, Technology, and Innovation
            Treaties and International Agreements
            United with Ukraine
     * Countries &amp; Areas
          * Back
          * Countries &amp; Areas

            Search for country or area
            Select an Option
            Search for country or area _____________________
            AAfghanistanAlbaniaAlgeriaAndorraAngolaAntigua and
            BarbudaArgentinaArmeniaAustraliaAustriaAzerbaijanBBahamas,
            TheBahrainBangladeshBarbadosBelarusBelgiumBelizeBeninBhutanBoliviaBosnia
            and HerzegovinaBotswanaBrazilBruneiBulgariaBurkina
            FasoBurmaBurundiCCabo VerdeCambodiaCameroonCanadaCentral African
            RepublicChadChileChinaColombiaComorosCook IslandsCosta
            RicaCroatiaCubaCyprusCzechiaCôte d’IvoireDDemocratic Republic of
            the CongoDenmarkDjiboutiDominicaDominican RepublicEEcuadorEgyptEl
            SalvadorEquatorial
            GuineaEritreaEstoniaEswatiniEthiopiaFFijiFinlandFranceGGabonGambia,
            TheGeorgiaGermanyGhanaGreeceGrenadaGuatemalaGuineaGuinea-BissauGuyanaHHaitiHoly
            SeeHondurasHungaryIIcelandIndiaIndonesiaIranIraqIrelandIsraelItalyJJamaicaJapanJordanKKazakhstanKenyaKiribatiKosovoKuwaitKyrgyzstanLLaosLatviaLebanonLesothoLiberiaLibyaLiechtensteinLithuaniaLuxembourgMMadagascarMalawiMalaysiaMaldivesMaliMaltaMarshall
            IslandsMauritaniaMauritiusMexicoMicronesiaMoldovaMonacoMongoliaMontenegroMoroccoMozambiqueNNamibiaNauruNepalNetherlandsNew
            ZealandNicaraguaNigerNigeriaNiueNorth KoreaNorth
            MacedoniaNorwayOOmanPPakistanPalauPalestinian
            TerritoriesPanamaPapua New
            GuineaParaguayPeruPhilippinesPolandPortugalQQatarRRepublic of the
            CongoRomaniaRussiaRwandaSSaint Kitts and NevisSaint LuciaSaint
            Vincent and the GrenadinesSamoaSan MarinoSao Tome and
            PrincipeSaudi ArabiaSenegalSerbiaSeychellesSierra
            LeoneSingaporeSlovakiaSloveniaSolomon IslandsSomaliaSouth
            AfricaSouth KoreaSouth SudanSpainSri
            LankaSudanSurinameSwedenSwitzerlandSyriaTTaiwanTajikistanTanzaniaThailandTimor-LesteTogoTongaTrinidad
            and TobagoTunisiaTurkey
            (Türkiye)TurkmenistanTuvaluUUgandaUkraineUnited Arab
            EmiratesUnited
            KingdomUruguayUzbekistanVVanuatuVenezuelaVietnamYYemenZZambiaZimbabwe
     * Bureaus &amp; Offices
          * Back
          * Bureaus &amp; Offices

               * The Secretary of State
                    * The Secretary of State
                    * The Secretary of State
                    * Bureau of Global Health Security and Diplomacy
                    * Bureau of Intelligence and Research
                    * Bureau of Legislative Affairs
                    * Counselor of the Department
                    * Executive Secretariat
                    * Office of the Chief of Protocol
                    * Office of Civil Rights
                    * Office of Diversity and Inclusion
                    * Office of Global Women’s Issues
                    * Office of the Legal Adviser
                    * Office of the Ombudsman
                    * Office of the Special Envoy for Critical and Emerging
                      Technology
                    * Office of the U.S. Special Coordinator for the
                      Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment
                    * Office of the U.S. Special Presidential Envoy for
                      Climate
                    * Policy Planning Staff
                    * Special Presidential Envoy for Hostage Affairs
                    * Special Envoy for Iran
                    * Special Representative for Syria Engagement
                    * Special Representative for Venezuela
                    * U.S. Security Coordinator for Israel and the
                      Palestinian Authority
               * Deputy Secretaries of State
                    * Deputy Secretaries of State
                    * Deputy Secretary of State
                    * Bureau of Cyberspace and Digital Policy
                    * Office of the U.S. Coordinator for the Arctic Region
                    * Deputy Secretary of State for Management and Resources
                    * Office of Foreign Assistance
                    * Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization
               * Arms Control and International Security
                    * Arms Control and International Security
                    * Under Secretary for Arms Control and International
                      Security
                    * Bureau of Arms Control, Deterrence, and Stability
                    * Bureau of International Security and Nonproliferation
                    * Bureau of Political-Military Affairs
               * Civilian Security, Democracy, and Human Rights
                    * Civilian Security, Democracy, and Human Rights
                    * Under Secretary for Civilian Security, Democracy, and
                      Human Rights
                    * Bureau of Conflict and Stabilization Operations
                    * Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor
                    * Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement
                      Affairs
                    * Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration
                    * Office of Global Criminal Justice
                    * Office of International Religious Freedom
                    * Office of the Special Envoy To Monitor and Combat
                      Antisemitism
                    * Office of the U.S. Special Coordinator for Tibetan
                      Issues
                    * Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons
               * Economic Growth, Energy, and Environment
                    * Economic Growth, Energy, and Environment
                    * Under Secretary for Economic Growth, Energy, and the
                      Environment
                    * Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs
                    * Bureau of Energy Resources
                    * Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and
                      Scientific Affairs
                    * Office of Global Food Security
                    * Office of Global Partnerships
                    * Office of the Chief Economist
                    * Office of the Science and Technology Adviser
               * Management
                    * Management
                    * Under Secretary for Management
                    * Bureau of Administration
                    * Bureau of Budget and Planning
                    * Bureau of the Comptroller and Global Financial Services
                    * Bureau of Consular Affairs
                    * Bureau of Diplomatic Security
                    * Bureau of Global Talent Management
                    * Bureau of Information Resource Management
                    * Bureau of Medical Services
                    * Bureau of Overseas Buildings Operations
                    * Director of Diplomatic Reception Rooms
                    * Foreign Service Institute
                    * Office of Foreign Missions
                    * Office of Management Strategy and Solutions
               * Political Affairs
                    * Political Affairs
                    * Under Secretary for Political Affairs
                    * Bureau of African Affairs
                    * Bureau of Counterterrorism
                    * Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs
                    * Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs
                    * Bureau of International Organization Affairs
                    * Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs
                    * Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs
                    * Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs
               * Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs
                    * Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs
                    * Under Secretary for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs
                    * Educational and Cultural Affairs
                    * Expo Unit
                    * Global Engagement Center
                    * Global Public Affairs
                    * Office of Global Youth Issues
                    * Policy, Planning, and Resources
                    * U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy
     * About
          * Back
          * About

            Mission

            About the U.S. Department of State
            Joint Strategic Plan
            Equity Action Plan
            Foreign Affairs Manual and Handbook
            Department of State by State Map
            DipNote Blog
            We Are the U.S. Department of State

            History

            Previous Administration Archives
            Foreign Relations of the United States
            National Museum of American Diplomacy
            Art in Embassies

            Administrative

            Department Reports and Publications
            Agency Financial Reports
            Form Finder
            Organization Chart
            Plans, Performance, Budget
            Information Quality Act
            Open Government Initiative
            Data Informed Diplomacy
            Digital Government Strategy
            Plain Writing Program
            Partner with State

            Leadership

            The Secretary of State
            Deputy Secretary of State
            Deputy Secretary of State for Management and Resources
            Biographies of Senior Officials

            Directories

            Contact Us
            Telephone Directory
            U.S. Ambassadors
            U.S. Embassies and Other Posts
            Country Offices Directory
            Key Officers of Foreign Service Posts
            Diplomats in Residence
   Search: _____________________
   Search
   Close
   HomeOffice of the SpokespersonPress Releases...Russia’s Strategic Failure
   and Ukraine’s Secure Future
   hide

             Russia’s Strategic Failure and Ukraine’s Secure Future

   Speech

   Antony J. Blinken, Secretary of State

   Helsinki City Hall

   Helsinki, Finland

   June 2, 2023

   MAYOR VARTIAINEN:  Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends,
   it is my great pleasure to warmly welcome you all to the beautiful capital
   of Finland, Helsinki, and the Helsinki City Hall.  Helsinki has a great
   honor to host this special event today.  We are humbled and in great
   appreciation to have the U.S. Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken here in
   Helsinki.

   Helsinki is a city where the harmonious blend of history, innovation,
   freedom, and diplomacy converges.  Our capital is and has been an arena
   for numerous high-level meetings and political events, and we are proud to
   provide the platform for this historical moment, now for the first time as
   the proud capital of a new NATO Ally.

   Now it is my great pleasure to introduce you the co-organizer of the
   event, Dr. Mika Aaltola, the director of the Finnish Institute of
   International Affairs.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

   MR AALTOLA:  Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, this is a truly
   historical day.  It is the first time that a United States secretary of
   state stands on the solid granite ground of NATO Finland.  Secretary
   Blinken’s visit represents a new era in the Finnish-U.S. relations that
   have long historical ties.  Never before have the relations between our
   two countries been this close.

   In addition to now being NATO Allies, Finland and the United States are
   working together to enhance our bilateral defense cooperation.  Also,
   economic cooperation has increased significantly as the U.S. became
   Finland’s number one trade partner last year.

   While physically separated by an ocean, our countries are bound by ties
   that surpass distance.  We face common security challenges, but even more
   importantly, we share a belief in democracy, in our common values and
   shared interests.

   These values are being challenged by Russia’s brutal invasion of Ukraine. 
   With the level of economic and military support it has offered to Ukraine,
   the United States remains the indispensable force in Europe.  The U.S. was
   already awake when most of Europe was still sleeping, relatively
   undisturbed by Russia’s power political gaming.  U.S. leadership is as
   needed as ever. 

   This leadership helps to keep doors open and enemies at bay, but there
   would be no leadership without a partnership.  This partnership is
   something that Finland has offered to the United States.  Finland is an
   able ally and a security provider.  We carry our responsibilities in our
   region and beyond, and we are committed to support Ukraine and to defend
   ourselves and the values we stand for.  This commitment is shared by the
   Finnish leadership but, even more importantly, by the Finnish people.

   Finland has ranked as the least corrupt, most egalitarian, one of the most
   educated, and most democratic countries in the world.  It also is the most
   stable country in the world.  In these volatile times, this stability has
   a value of its own.  Surprisingly for many Finns, Finland is also the
   happiest country in the world.  We question this result every year, but it
   is pointed to us that it is the case.  It is a fact, so how miserable
   others must be if we are the happiest.  (Laughter.)

   But now I’m truly happy to be able to welcome on the stage with United
   States Secretary of State Mr. Antony Blinken.  (Applause.)

   SECRETARY BLINKEN:  Thank you.  Thank you very much.  And yes, I feel a
   greater sense of happiness today than I’ve felt in a long time. 
   (Laughter.)

   Mayor Vartiainen, thank you for hosting us here in Helsinki, and in this
   absolutely magnificent city hall.

   And Mika, my thanks to you, and also to your entire team – all of the
   researchers at the Finnish Institute of International Affairs, for
   deepening the scholarship about diplomacy, and also enriching the public
   debate.

   I’m also gratified that my friend and my partner, Pekka Haavisto, is here
   with us today.  We have worked so closely together over this past truly
   historic year, and I’m grateful for your presence.

   To all of the distinguished guests, two months ago, I stood with our
   Allies in Brussels as Finland’s flag was raised over NATO headquarters for
   the first time.  President Niinistö declared, and I quote, “The era of
   military nonalignment in Finland has come to an end.  A new era begins.”

   It was a sea change that would have been unthinkable a little more than a
   year earlier.  Before Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine, one in four
   Finns supported the country joining NATO.  After the full-scale invasion,
   three in four Finns supported joining.

   It wasn’t hard for Finns to imagine themselves in the Ukrainians’ shoes. 
   They’d walked in them in November 1939, when the Soviet Union invaded
   Finland.

   Like President Putin’s so-called “special operation” against Ukraine, the
   USSR’s so-called “liberation operation” falsely accused Finland of
   provoking the invasion.

   Like the Russians with Kyiv, the Soviets were confident that they’d sack
   Helsinki in weeks – so confident that they had Dmitri Shostakovich compose
   music for the victory parade, before the Winter War even started.

   Like Putin in Ukraine, when Stalin failed to overcome the Finns’ fierce
   and determined resistance, he shifted to a strategy of terror,
   incinerating entire villages and bombing so many hospitals from the air
   that Finns started covering up the Red Cross insignia on the rooftops.

   Like the millions of Ukrainian refugees today, hundreds of thousands of
   Finns were driven from their homes by the Soviet invasion.  They included
   two children, Pirkko and Henri, whose families evacuated their homes in
   Karelia – the mother and father of our host, the mayor of the city.

   To many Finns, the parallels between 1939 and 2022 were striking.  They
   were visceral.  And they were not wrong.

   Finns understood that if Russia violated the core principles of the UN
   Charter – sovereignty, territorial integrity, independence – if they did
   that in Ukraine, it will imperil their own peace and security as well.

   We understood that, too.  That’s why, over the course of 2021, as Russia
   ratcheted up its threats against Kyiv and amassed more and more troops,
   tanks, and planes on Ukraine’s borders, we made every effort to get Moscow
   to de-escalate its manufactured crisis and resolve its issues through
   diplomacy.

   President Biden told President Putin that we were prepared to discuss our
   mutual security concerns – a message that I reaffirmed repeatedly –
   including in person, with Foreign Minister Lavrov.  We offered written
   proposals to reduce tensions.  Together with our allies and partners, we
   used every forum to try to prevent war, from the NATO-Russia Council to
   the OSCE, from the UN to our direct channels.

   Across these engagements, we set out two possible paths for Moscow: a path
   of diplomacy, which could lead to greater security for Ukraine, for
   Russia, for all of Europe; or a path of aggression, which would result in
   severe consequences for the Russian Government.

   President Biden made clear that regardless of which path President Putin
   chose, we would be ready.  And if Russia chose war, we would do three
   things: support Ukraine, impose severe costs on Russia, and strengthen
   NATO while rallying our allies and partners around these goals.

   As the storm clouds gathered, we surged military, economic, and
   humanitarian assistance to Ukraine.  First in August 2021, and again in
   December, we sent military equipment to bolster Ukraine’s defenses,
   including Javelins and Stingers.  And we deployed a team from the U.S.
   Cyber Command to help Ukraine shore up its power grid and other critical
   infrastructure against cyber attacks.

   We prepared an unprecedented set of sanctions, export controls, other
   economic costs to impose severe and immediate consequences on Russia in
   the event of a full-scale invasion.

   We took steps to leave no doubt that we, and our Allies, would uphold our
   commitment to defend every inch of NATO territory.

   And we worked relentlessly to rally allies and partners around helping
   Ukraine defend itself and denying Putin his strategic aims.

   Since day one of his administration, President Biden has focused on
   rebuilding and revitalizing America’s alliances and partnerships, knowing
   that we’re stronger when we work alongside those who share our interests
   and our values.

   In the run-up to Russia’s invasion, we demonstrated the power of those
   partnerships – coordinating our planning and strategy for a potential
   invasion with NATO, with the EU, with the G7, and other allies and
   partners from around the world.

   Over those fateful weeks in January and February of 2022, it became clear
   that no amount of diplomatic effort was going to change President Putin’s
   mind.  He would choose war.

   And so, on February 17, 2022, I went before the United Nations Security
   Council to warn the world that Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine was
   imminent.

   I set out the steps that Russia would take:  first manufacturing a
   pretext, and then using missiles, tanks, troops, cyber attacks to strike
   pre-identified targets, including Kyiv, with the aim of toppling Ukraine’s
   democratically elected government and erasing Ukraine from the map as an
   independent country.

   We hoped – we hoped – to be proven wrong.

   Unfortunately, we were right.  A week after my warning to the Security
   Council, President Putin invaded.  Ukrainians of all walks of life –
   soldiers and citizens, men and women, young and old – bravely defended
   their nation.

   And the United States moved swiftly, decisively, and in unison with allies
   and partners to do exactly what we said we’d do: support Ukraine, impose
   costs on Russia, strengthen NATO – all of this with our allies and
   partners.

   And with our collective support, Ukraine did what it said it would do:
   defended its territory, its independence, its democracy.

   Today, what I want to do is set out this and the many other ways Putin’s
   war of aggression against Ukraine has been a strategic failure, greatly
   diminishing Russia’s power, its interests, and its influence for years to
   come.  And I’ll also share our vision of the path to a just and lasting
   peace.

   When you look at President Putin’s long-term strategic aims and
   objectives, there is no question:  Russia is significantly worse off today
   than it was before its full-scale invasion of Ukraine – militarily,
   economically, geopolitically.

   Where Putin aimed to project strength, he’s revealed weakness.  Where he
   sought to divide, he’s united.  What he tried to prevent, he’s
   precipitated.  That outcome is no accident. It’s the direct result of the
   courage and solidarity of the Ukrainian people and the deliberate,
   decisive, swift action that we and our partners have taken to support
   Ukraine.

   First, for years, President Putin sought to weaken and divide NATO, under
   the false claim that it posed a threat to Russia.  In fact, before Russia
   invaded Crimea and eastern Ukraine in 2014, NATO’s posture reflected a
   shared conviction that conflict in Europe was unlikely.  The United States
   had significantly reduced its forces in Europe since the end of the Cold
   War, from 315,000 in 1989 to 61,000 at the end of 2013.  Many European
   countries’ spending on defense had been declining for years.  NATO’s
   strategic doctrine at the time labeled Russia a partner.

   Following Russia’s invasion of Crimea and the Donbas in 2014, that tide
   began to turn.  Allies committed to spend two percent of GDP on defense
   and deployed new forces to NATO’s eastern flank in response to Russia’s
   aggression.   The Alliance has accelerated its transformation since
   Russia’s full-scale invasion – not to pose a threat or because NATO seeks
   conflict.  NATO always has been – and always will be – a defensive
   alliance.  But Russia’s aggression, threats, nuclear saber-rattling
   compelled us to reinforce our deterrence and defense.

   Hours after the full-scale invasion, we activated NATO’s defensive
   Response Force. In the weeks that followed, several Allies – including the
   United Kingdom, Germany, the Netherlands, Denmark, Spain, France – swiftly
   sent troops, aircraft, and ships to reinforce NATO’s eastern flank.  We
   doubled the number of ships patrolling the North and Baltic seas, and
   doubled the number of battle groups in the region.  The United States
   established its first permanent military presence in Poland.  And, of
   course, NATO added Finland as its 31st Ally, and we will soon add Sweden
   as the 32nd.

   As we head into the NATO Summit in Vilnius, our shared message will be
   clear:  NATO Allies are committed to enhanced deterrence and defense, to
   greater and smarter defense spending, to deeper ties with Indo-Pacific
   partners.  NATO’s door remains open to new members, and it will stay open.

   Russia’s invasion has also led the European Union to do more – and more
   together with the United States and with NATO – than ever before.  The EU
   and its member-states have provided over $75 billion in military,
   economic, humanitarian support to Ukraine.  That includes $18 billion in
   security assistance, from air defense systems to Leopard tanks to
   ammunition.  Coordinating closely with the U.S., the U.K., and other
   partners, the EU has launched its most ambitious sanctions ever,
   immobilizing over half of Russia’s sovereign assets.  And European nations
   have taken in more than 8 million Ukrainian refugees, most of whom have
   not only been granted access to public services, but also the right to
   work, to study.

   Second, for decades, Moscow worked to deepen Europe’s dependence on
   Russian oil and gas.  Since President Putin’s full-scale invasion, Europe
   has made a swift and decisive turn away from Russian energy.  Berlin
   immediately canceled Nord Stream 2, which would have doubled the flow of
   Russian gas to Germany.

   Before Putin’s invasion, European countries imported 37 percent of their
   natural gas from Russia.  Europe cut that by more than half in less than a
   year.  In 2022, EU countries generated a record one-fifth of their
   electricity through wind and solar – more electricity than the EU
   generated through coal, gas, or any other power source.  The United States
   for its part more than doubled our supply of gas to Europe, and our Asian
   allies – Japan, the Republic of Korea – also stepped up to boost Europe’s
   supply.

   Meanwhile, the oil price cap that we and our G7 partners put in place has
   kept Russia’s energy in the global market, while dramatically cutting
   Russian revenues.  A year into its invasion, Russia’s oil revenues had
   fallen by 43 percent.  The Russian Government’s tax revenues from oil and
   gas have fallen by nearly two-thirds.  And Moscow will not get back the
   markets that it has lost in Europe.

   Third, President Putin spent two decades trying to build Russia’s military
   into a modern force, with cutting-edge weaponry, streamlined command, and
   well-trained, well-equipped soldiers.  The Kremlin often claimed it had
   the second-strongest military in the world, and many believed it.  Today,
   many see Russia’s military as the second-strongest in Ukraine.  Its
   equipment, technology, leadership, troops, strategy, tactics, and morale,
   a case study in failure – even as Moscow inflicts devastating,
   indiscriminate, and gratuitous damage on Ukraine and Ukrainians.

   Russia is estimated to have suffered more than 100,000 casualties in the
   last six months alone, as Putin sends wave after wave of Russians into a
   meat grinder of his own making.

   Meanwhile, sanctions and export controls imposed by the United States, the
   European Union, and other partners around the world have severely degraded
   Russia’s war machine and defense exports, setting them back for years to
   come.  Russia’s global defense partners and customers can no longer count
   on promised orders, let alone spare parts.  And as they witness Russia’s
   poor performance on the battlefield, they are increasingly taking their
   business elsewhere.

   Fourth, President Putin wanted to build Russia up as a global, economic
   power.  His invasion cemented his long-running failure to diversify
   Russia’s economy, to strengthen its human capital, to fully integrate the
   country into the global economy.  Today, Russia’s economy is a shadow of
   what it was, and a fraction of what it could have become had Putin
   invested in technology and innovation rather than weapons and war.

   Russia’s foreign reserves are down by more than half, as are profits from
   its state-owned enterprises.  More than 1,700 foreign companies have
   reduced, suspended, or ended operations in Russia since the onset of the
   invasion.  That’s tens of thousands of jobs gone, a massive flight of
   foreign expertise, and billions of dollars in lost revenue for the
   Kremlin.

   A million people have fled Russia, including many of the country’s top IT
   specialists, entrepreneurs, engineers, doctors, professors, journalists,
   scientists.  Countless artists, writers, filmmakers, musicians have also
   left, seeing no future for themselves in a country where they can’t
   express themselves freely.

   Fifth, President Putin invested considerable effort to show that Russia
   could be a valued partner to China.  On the eve of the invasion, Beijing
   and Moscow declared a “no limits” partnership.  Eighteen months into the
   invasion, that two-way partnership looks more and more one-sided.  Putin’s
   aggression and weaponization of strategic dependencies on Russia has
   served as a wake-up call to governments around the world to make efforts
   at de-risking.  And together, the United States and our partners are
   taking steps to reduce those vulnerabilities, from building more resilient
   critical supply chains to strengthening our shared tools to counter
   economic coercion.

   So, Russia’s aggression hasn’t distracted us from meeting the challenges
   in the Indo-Pacific.  It’s actually sharpened our focus on them.  And our
   support for Ukraine hasn’t weakened our capabilities to meet potential
   threats from China or anywhere else – it’s strengthened them. And we
   believe that Beijing is taking notice that, far from being intimidated by
   a forceful violation of the UN Charter, the world has rallied to defend
   it.

   Sixth, prior to the war, President Putin regularly used Russia’s influence
   in international organizations to try to weaken the United Nations
   Charter.  Today, Russia is more isolated on the world stage than ever.  At
   least 140 nations – two-thirds of UN member-states – have repeatedly voted
   in the UN General Assembly to affirm Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial
   integrity, to reject Putin’s attempts to illegally annex Ukrainian
   territory, to condemn Russia’s aggression and atrocities, and to call for
   a peace consistent with the principles of the United Nations
   Charter.  Governments from the West and East, North and South have voted
   to suspend Russia from numerous institutions, from the UN Human Rights
   Council to the International Civil Aviation Organization.  Russian
   candidates have lost one election after another for key seats in
   international institutions, from the governing board of UNICEF to
   leadership of the UN agency responsible for information and communication
   technologies, the ITU.

   Each rebuke and loss for Moscow is not only a vote against Russia’s
   aggression, it’s a vote for the core principles of the United Nations
   Charter.   And countries from every part of the world are supporting
   efforts to hold Russia accountable for its war crimes and crimes against
   humanity, from creating a special UN commission to document the crimes and
   human rights violations committed in Russia’s war to assisting
   investigations by prosecutors in Ukraine and at the International Criminal
   Court.

   Seventh, President Putin, for years, sought to divide the West from the
   rest, claiming that Russia was advancing the best interests of the
   developing world.   Today, thanks to openly declaring his imperial
   ambitions and weaponizing food and fuel, President Putin has diminished
   Russian influence on every continent.  Putin’s efforts to reconstitute a
   centuries-old empire reminded every nation that had endured colonial rule
   and repression of their own pain.  Then, he exacerbated the economic
   hardship many nations were already experiencing due to COVID and climate
   change by cutting off Ukraine’s grain from the world markets, driving up
   the cost of food and fuel everywhere.

   By contrast, on one global challenge after another, the United States and
   our partners have proven that our focus on Ukraine will not distract us
   from working to improve the lives of people around the world and address
   the cascading costs of Russia’s aggression.

   Our unprecedented emergency food aid has prevented millions of people from
   starving to death. Just last year alone, the United States provided $13.5
   billion in food assistance.  And the United States is currently funding
   over half of the UN World Food Programme’s budget.  Russia funds less than
   one percent.

   We supported a deal negotiated by UN Secretary-General Guterres
   and Türkiye to break Russia’s stranglehold on Ukrainian grain, allowing 29
   million tons of food and counting to get out of Ukraine and to people
   around the world.  That includes 8 million tons of wheat, which is the
   equivalent of roughly 16 billion loaves of bread.

   Together with allies and partners, we’re mobilizing hundreds of billions
   of dollars in financing for high-quality infrastructure in the countries
   where it’s needed most and building it in a way that’s transparent, good
   for the environment; empowers local workers and communities.

   We’re strengthening global health security, from training half a million
   health professionals in our own hemisphere, in the Americas, to helping
   the pharmaceutical company Moderna finalize plans with Kenya to build its
   first mRNA vaccine manufacturing facility in Africa.

   Time and again, we are demonstrating who fuels global problems and who
   solves them.

   Finally, President Putin’s core aim – indeed, his obsession – has been to
   erase the very idea of Ukraine – its identity, its people, its culture,
   its agency, its territory.  But here, too, Putin’s actions have
   precipitated the opposite effect.  No one has done more to strengthen
   Ukraine’s national identity than the man who sought to wipe it out.  No
   one has done more to deepen Ukrainians’ unity and solidarity.  No one has
   done more to intensify Ukrainians’ determination to write their own future
   on their own terms.

   Ukraine will never be Russia.  Ukraine stands sovereign, independent,
   firmly in control of its own destiny.  In this – Putin’s primary goal – he
   has failed most spectacularly.

   President Putin constantly claims that the United States, Europe, and
   countries that support Ukraine are bent on defeating or destroying Russia,
   on toppling its government, on holding back its people.  That is false. We
   do not seek the overthrow of the Russian Government and we never have. 
   Russia’s future is for Russians to decide.

   We have no quarrel with the Russian people, who had no say in starting
   this tragic war.  We lament that Putin is sending tens of thousands of
   Russians to their deaths in a war he could end now, if he chose – and
   inflicting ruinous impact on Russia’s economy and its prospects.  Indeed,
   it must be asked:  How has Putin’s war improved the lives, the
   livelihoods, or the prospects of ordinary Russian citizens?

   Everything that we and our allies and partners do in response to Putin’s
   invasion has the same purpose: to help Ukraine defend its sovereignty, its
   territorial integrity and independence, and to stand up for the
   international rules and principles that are threatened by Putin’s ongoing
   war.

   Let me say this directly to the Russian people:  The United States is not
   your enemy.  At the peaceful end of the Cold War, we shared the hope that
   Russia would emerge to a brighter future, free and open, fully integrated
   with the world.  For more than 30 years, we worked to pursue stable and
   cooperative relations with Moscow, because we believed that a peaceful,
   secure, and prosperous Russia is in America’s interests – indeed, in the
   interests of the world.  We still believe that today.

   We cannot choose your future for you, and we won’t try to do so.  But we
   also will not let President Putin impose his will on other nations. 
   Moscow must treat the independence, the sovereignty, the territorial
   integrity of its neighbors with the same respect that it demands for
   Russia.

   Now, as I’ve made clear, by virtually every measure, President Putin’s
   invasion of Ukraine has been a strategic failure.  Yet while Putin has
   failed to achieve his aims, he hasn’t given up on them.  He’s convinced
   that he can simply outlast Ukraine and its supporters, sending more and
   more Russians to their deaths, inflicting more and more suffering on
   Ukraine’s civilians.  He thinks that even if he loses the short game, he
   can still win the long game.  Putin is wrong about this, too.

   The United States – together with our allies and partners – is firmly
   committed to supporting Ukraine’s defense today, tomorrow, for as long as
   it takes.  And in America, this support is bipartisan.  And precisely
   because we have no illusions about Putin’s aspirations, we believe the
   prerequisite for meaningful diplomacy and real peace is a stronger
   Ukraine, capable of deterring and defending against any future aggression.

   We’ve rallied a formidable team around this effort.  With Secretary of
   Defense Austin’s leadership, more than 50 countries are cooperating
   through the Ukraine Defense Contact Group.  And we’re leading by the power
   of our example, providing tens of billions of dollars in security
   assistance to Ukraine with robust and unwavering support from both sides
   of the aisle in our Congress.

   Today, America and our allies and partners are helping meet Ukraine’s
   needs on the current battlefield while developing a force that can deter
   and defend against aggression for years to come.  That means helping build
   a Ukrainian military of the future, with long-term funding, a strong air
   force centered on modern combat aircraft, an integrated air and missile
   defense network, advanced tanks and armored vehicles, national capacity to
   produce ammunition, and the training and support to keep forces and
   equipment combat-ready.

   That also means Ukraine’s membership in NATO will be a matter for Allies
   and Ukraine – not Russia – to decide.  The path to peace will be forged
   not only through Ukraine’s long-term military strength, but also the
   strength of its economy and its democracy. This is at the heart of our
   vision for the way forward:  Ukraine must not only survive, it must
   thrive.  To be strong enough to deter and defend against aggressors beyond
   its borders, Ukraine needs a vibrant, prosperous democracy within its
   borders.

   That’s the path the Ukrainian people voted for when they won their
   independence in 1991.  It’s the choice they defended in the Maidan in
   2004, and again in 2013: a free and open society, with respect for human
   rights and the rule of law, fully integrated with Europe, where all
   Ukrainians have dignity and the opportunity to realize their full
   potential – and where the government responds to the needs of its people,
   not those of vested interests and elites.

   We are committed to working with allies and partners to help Ukrainians
   make their vision a reality.  We’ll not only help Ukraine rebuild its
   economy, but reimagine it, with new industries, trade routes, supply
   chains connected with Europe and with markets around the world.  We’ll
   continue to bolster Ukraine’s independent anti-corruption bodies, a free
   and vibrant press, civil society organizations.  We’ll help Ukraine
   overhaul its energy grid – more than half of which has been destroyed by
   Russia – and do it in a way that’s cleaner, more resilient, and more
   integrated with its neighbors, so that Ukraine can one day become an
   energy exporter.

   Ukraine’s greater integration with Europe is vital to all of these
   efforts.  Kyiv took a giant step in that direction last June, when the
   union formally granted Ukraine EU candidate status.  And Kyiv is working
   to make progress toward the EU’s benchmarks even as it fights for its
   survival.

   Investing in Ukraine’s strength is not at the expense of diplomacy.  It
   paves the way for diplomacy.  President Zelenskyy has said repeatedly that
   diplomacy is the only way to end this war, and we agree.  In December, he
   put forward a vision for a just and lasting peace.  Instead of engaging on
   that proposal or even offering one of his own, President Putin has said
   there is nothing to talk about until Ukraine accepts, and I quote, “new
   territorial realities” – in other words, accept Russia’s seizure of 20
   percent of Ukraine’s territory.  Putin spent the winter trying to freeze
   Ukrainian civilians to death, and then the spring trying to bomb them to
   death.  Day after day, Russia rains down missiles and drones on Ukrainian
   apartment buildings, schools, hospitals.

   Now, from a distance, it’s easy to become numb to these and other Russian
   atrocities, like the drone strike last week on a medical clinic in Dnipro,
   which killed four people, including doctors; or the 17 strikes on Kyiv in
   the month of May alone, many using hypersonic missiles; or the missile
   attack in April on the city of Uman – hundreds of miles from the front
   lines – in which 23 civilians were killed.  The rocket strike hit multiple
   apartment buildings in Uman before dawn.  In one of those buildings, a
   father, Dmytro, raced to the room where his children were sleeping –
   Kyrylo, age 17; Sophia, age 11.  But when he opened the door to their
   bedroom, there was no room, just fire and smoke.  His children were
   gone.  Two more innocent lives extinguished.  Two of the six children
   Russia killed in a single strike.  Two of the thousands of Ukrainian
   children killed by Russia’s war of aggression.  Thousands more have been
   wounded, and thousands beyond that have been abducted from their families
   by Russia and given to Russian families.  Millions have been displaced. 
   All are part of a generation of Ukrainian children terrorized,
   traumatized, scarred by Putin’s war of aggression, all of whom remind us
   why Ukrainians are so fiercely committed to defending their nation and why
   they deserve – deserve – a just and lasting peace.

   Now, some have argued that if the United States truly wanted peace, we’d
   stop supporting Ukraine, and then if Ukraine truly wanted to end the war,
   it would just cut its losses and give up the fifth of its territory that
   Russia illegally occupies.  Let’s play this out for a minute.  What
   neighbors of Russia would feel confident in their own sovereignty and
   territorial integrity if Putin’s aggression were to be rewarded with a
   fifth of Ukraine’s territory?

   And for that matter, how would any country that lives near a bully, with a
   history of threats and aggression, feel secure within its own
   borders?   What lesson will other would-be aggressors around the world
   learn if Putin is allowed to violate a core tenet of the UN Charter with
   impunity?   And how often in history have aggressors who seize all or part
   of a neighboring country been satisfied and stopped there?  When has that
   ever satisfied Vladimir Putin?

   The United States has been working with Ukraine – and allies and partners
   around the world – to build consensus around the core elements of a just
   and lasting peace.  To be clear, the United States welcomes any initiative
   that helps bring President Putin to the table to engage in meaningful
   diplomacy.  We’ll support efforts – whether by Brazil, by China, or any
   other nation – if they help find a way to a just and lasting peace,
   consistent with the principles of the United Nations Charter.

   Here’s what that means.

   A just and lasting peace must uphold the UN Charter and affirm the
   principles of sovereignty, territorial integrity, and independence.

   A just and lasting peace requires Ukraine’s full participation and assent
   – nothing about Ukraine without Ukraine.

   A just and lasting peace must support Ukraine’s reconstruction and
   recovery, with Russia paying its share.

   A just and lasting peace must address both accountability and
   reconciliation.

   A just and lasting peace can open a pathway to sanctions relief connected
   to concrete actions, especially military withdrawal.  A just and lasting
   peace must end Russia’s war of aggression.

   Now, over the coming weeks and months, some countries will call for a
   ceasefire.  And on the surface, that sounds sensible – attractive, even. 
   After all, who doesn’t want warring parties to lay down their arms?  Who
   doesn’t want the killing to stop?

   But a ceasefire that simply freezes current lines in place and enables
   Putin to consolidate control over the territory he’s seized, and then
   rest, re-arm, and re-attack – that is not a just and lasting peace.  It’s
   a Potemkin peace.  It would legitimize Russia’s land grab.  It would
   reward the aggressor and punish the victim.

   If and when Russia is ready to work for true peace, the United States will
   respond in concert with Ukraine and other allies and partners around the
   world.  And along with Ukraine and allies and partners, we would be
   prepared to have a broader discussion on European security that promotes
   stability and transparency and reduces the likelihood of future conflict.

   In the weeks and months ahead, the United States will continue to work
   with Ukraine, with our allies and partners – and any and all parties
   dedicated to supporting a just and lasting peace based on these
   principles.

   On April 4, 1949, 74 years to the day before Finland joined NATO, the
   original members of the Alliance gathered in Washington to sign its
   founding treaty.  President Truman warned the group, and I quote, “We
   cannot succeed if our people are haunted by the constant fear of
   aggression and burdened by the cost of preparing their nations
   individually against attack.  [W]e hope to create a shield against
   aggression and the fear of aggression – a bulwark which will permit us to
   get on with the real business of . . . achieving a fuller and happier life
   for all our citizens.”

   The same is true today.  No nation – not Ukraine, not the United States,
   not Finland, Sweden, any other country can deliver for its people if it
   lives in constant fear of aggression.  That’s why we’ve all got a stake in
   ensuring that President Putin’s war of aggression against Ukraine
   continues to be a strategic failure.

   In his New Year’s address to the Finnish people, President Niinistö
   identified one of the fundamental flaws of President Putin’s plan to
   swiftly conquer Ukraine – a flaw that also doomed Stalin’s plan to swiftly
   conquer Finland.  As President Niinistö said, and I quote, “As leaders of
   a country under authoritarian rule, Stalin and Putin failed to recognize .
   . . that people living in a free country have their own will and
   convictions.  And that a nation that works together constitutes an immense
   force.”

   Finns have a word for that fierce combination of will and
   determination: sisu.  And they recognize sisu in the struggle of
   Ukrainians today.  And when a free people like the Ukrainians have at
   their backs the support of free nations around the world – nations who
   recognize their fates and freedom – their rights and security are
   inextricably bound together, the force they possess is not merely
   immense.  It is unstoppable.

   Thank you very much.  (Applause.)

   Tags

   Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs Finland Office of the Spokesperson
   Russia Secretary Trip The Secretary of State Ukraine
   Back to Top
   United States Department of State
     * White House
     * USA.gov
     * Office of the Inspector General
     * Archives
     * Contact Us
   follow us
   Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Flickr GovDelivery
     * Privacy Policy
     * Accessibility Statement
     * Copyright Information
     * FOIA
     * No FEAR Act
   Close

U.S. Department of State

    The Lessons of 1989: Freedom and Our Future
</text>
</page>§
<page='en_ukraine-4'>
<text>
   Link: https://sb.scorecardresearch.com/beacon.js
   Link: canonical
   Link: amphtml
   Skip Navigation
   logo
   [ Submit ]logo
   Markets
   Business
   Investing
   Tech
   Politics
   CNBC TV
   Watchlist
   Investing Club
   PRO
   Menu
     * Make It
     * select
          * ALL SELECT
          * Credit Cards

          * Loans

          * Banking

          * Mortgages

          * Insurance

          * Credit Monitoring

          * Personal Finance

          * Small Business

          * Taxes

          * Help for Low Credit Scores

          * Investing

     * USA
     * INTL
   Search quotes, news &amp; videos
   Watchlist
   [ Submit ]
   SIGN IN
   [ Submit ]logo
   Markets
   Business
   Investing
   Tech
   Politics
   CNBC TV
   Watchlist
   Investing Club
   PRO
   Menu

   Updated Thu, Nov 16 202311:54 AM EST
   ShareShare Article via FacebookShare Article via TwitterShare Article via
   LinkedInShare Article via Email

 Russia says it's 'destroying' Ukrainians that crossed into occupied territory,
                        vowing to inflict 'hell' on them

   Holly Ellyatt

   This was CNBC's live blog tracking developments on the war in Ukraine.

   Fierce fighting has erupted between Russian forces and Ukrainian units
   that crossed over the Dnieper River to the Russian-occupied eastern bank
   of the river in the southern Kherson region.

   Battles are concentrated around a number of villages on the east or left
   bank of the river where Ukraine has managed to establish several
   footholds, but Russian forces are now reported to be pounding those
   positions.

   A Russian-installed official in the occupied part of Kherson said Russian
   forces were "destroying" Ukrainian forces "on the largest scale" in the
   village of Krynky, where he claimed they had been trapped.

   A group of Ukrainian marines at the bank of the Dnieper River at the front
   line near Kherson, Ukraine, on Oct. 14, 2023.
   Alex Babenko | AP

   Analysts at the Institute for the Study of War painted a picture of mixed
   fortunes for Ukrainian forces in the area, citing Ukrainian officials,
   Russian military bloggers closely following developments in the war and
   open-source evidence.

   In other news, Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Wednesday that any
   internal and external attempts to interfere with the 2024 presidential
   election in Russia will be suppressed.

   Putin said any measures necessary will be taken to prevent any illegal
   obstruction of the election, including any pressure applied to the
   electoral process. Russia has long been accused of interfering in the
   electoral processes of other countries, particularly the U.S. vote in
   2016, although it denies the allegations.

   Thu, Nov 16 202310:20 AM EST

Russian opposition politician sentenced to eight years in prison: State media

   Vladimir Milov, a Russian opposition politician, was sentenced in absentia
   to eight years in a prison for intentionally spreading false information
   about the Russian Armed Forces, Russian state news agency Interfax
   reported Thursday. A video on YouTube was cited as the basis for the case.

   Milov previously worked under President Vladimir Putin but became
   disillusioned with the track that Russia's geopolitical approach was on
   and now lives abroad.

   His sentence would begin as soon as he were detained on Russian territory
   or extradited to Russia, Interfax reported.

   — Sophie Kiderlin

   Thu, Nov 16 20239:55 AM EST

One dead, four injured by Russian shelling, governor of Kherson Oblast says

   One person has died and four others have been wounded by Russian shelling
   on the town of Bilozerka in Kherson Oblast, the local governor Oleksandr
   Prokudin said Thursday. This comes as fighting has accelerated in the
   Kherson region in southern Ukraine in recent days.

   In a post on Telegram, translated via Google Translate, he said one man
   had been pulled out from under rubble from a house that was affected in
   the attacks. Those injured have been taken to hospital, Produkin said.

   The governor said residential buildings and a grocery store had been hit,
   as well as important infrastructure. Bilozerka and surrounding towns were
   out of electricity, he said.

   CNBC could not independently verify reports on the ground.

   — Sophie Kiderlin

   Thu, Nov 16 20239:22 AM EST

Russia's relationship with Israel, in 60 seconds

   Russia is turning increasingly hostile toward Israel. But what has been
   their relationship over the past 75 years and how has it changed?

   Watch the video to find out more.

   Russia's relationship with Israel, in 60 seconds
   watch now
   VIDEO0:5900:59
   Russia's relationship with Israel, in 60 seconds
   News Videos
   Thu, Nov 16 20238:28 AM EST

Russian court jails artist for seven years over anti-war protest

   Russian artist Alexandra Skochilenko, 33, accused of spreading
   disinformation about the Russian army for changing supermarket price tags
   with messages criticising Russia's military offensive in Ukraine, gestures
   from inside a defendants' cage during her verdict hearing at a court in
   Saint Petersburg on November 16, 2023. (Photo by Olga MALTSEVA / AFP)
   (Photo by OLGA MALTSEVA/AFP via Getty Images)
   Olga Maltseva | Afp | Getty Images

   A Russian court on Thursday found artist and musician Alexandra
   Skochilenko guilty of knowingly spreading fake news about the Russian
   army's behavior in Ukraine and sentenced her to seven years in a prison
   colony.

   Skochilenko, 33, replaced price tags in a supermarket in her native St
   Petersburg on March 31 2022 with small pieces of paper urging an end to
   Russia's war in Ukraine and criticising the authorities.

   She denied the formal charge of knowingly spreading false information
   about the army.

   — Reuters

   Thu, Nov 16 20238:12 AM EST

Russia's Black Sea fleet forced to retreat, Zelenskyy says

   Sailors stand at attention on the deck of a Russian Black Sea Fleet
   warship during the Navy Day celebrations in the port city of Novorossiysk
   on July 30, 2023.
   Stringer | Afp | Getty Images

   Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Thursday that Russia's naval
   fleet was forced to retreat from the eastern part of the Black Sea.

   "We were able to intercept Russia's initiative in the Black Sea and
   created such security conditions that force the aggressor to flee from the
   eastern part of the water area and try to hide warships," Zelenskyy said
   on Telegram. 

   "As one of the main results of our actions, Russia is unable to use the
   Black Sea as a springboard to destabilize other regions of the world."

   CNBC could not confirm the report.

   Ukraine increased its attacks on Russia's prized Black Sea fleet and its
   headquarters and port infrastructure this year, essentially forcing much
   of the fleet to relocate away from its home base of Sevastopol in
   Russian-occupied Crimea. A number of vessels were transferred to ports
   that flank the Kerch Strait in Novorossiysk, on the Russian mainland, and
   Feodosia on the Crimean coast.

   — Holly Ellyatt

   Thu, Nov 16 20236:22 AM EST

Russia says its 'destroying' Ukrainian forces that crossed into occupied
territory

   Russian forces say they are inflicting heavy losses on Ukrainian
   troops that crossed over the Dnieper River to the Russian-occupied eastern
   bank.

   Russia confirmed that Ukrainian units had crossed the Dnieper and conceded
   that its forces had initially been outnumbered. Since then, however, it
   has warned it had brought in additional forces and that it would inflict
   "hell" on Ukrainian units. Various analysis suggests Russia is now
   pummeling units trying to defend positions along the east bank, with the
   village of Krynky being an epicenter of fighting.

   Vladimir Saldo, the Russian-installed governor of the occupied part of the
   Kherson region, said Russian forces were pounding Ukrainian positions on
   Thursday.

   "In Krynky, our military is now destroying the enemy on the largest
   scale," Saldo said on Telegram Thursday, saying that Russian forces were
   "surprised at how much the Ukrainian command does not value the lives of
   its personnel, sending them to their death in dozens and hundreds."

   "Therefore, it is not surprising that the flow of Ukrainian prisoners from
   the left bank of the Dnieper does not dry up," he said.

   Saldo claimed yesterday that Ukrainian forces were blocked in the village
   of Krynky where "a fiery hell" awaited them. "Bombs, missiles, ammunition
   from heavy flamethrower systems, artillery shells, and drones are flying
   at him [Ukrainian forces] ... Over the last two or three days alone, the
   enemy's total losses amounted to about a hundred militants," Saldo said.

   CNBC was unable to verify developments on the battlefield.

   Thu, Nov 16 20235:24 AM EST

Putin met business leaders to try to attract investment back to Russia, Kremlin
says

   Russian President Vladimir Putin met with the country's business leaders
   Wednesday in a bid to encourage them to invest more in Russia, Kremlin
   spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said Thursday.

   "The discussion was about possible steps to improve the investment
   attractiveness of our economy, to create more than competitive conditions
   for completing the process of transferring companies here," Peskov said,
   according to comments published by Russian news agency RIA Novosti.

   Russian President Vladimir Putin at an awarding ceremony at the
   Novo-Ogaryovo State Residence, on Nov. 15, 2023, in Moscow, Russia.
   Contributor | Getty Images News | Getty Images

   Peskov said Putin discussed completing the process of redomiciling
   businesses, claiming that "the vast majority of entrepreneurs who took
   part have in one way or another encountered illegal treatment abroad, and
   now the process of transferring their business to Russian jurisdiction is
   actively under way, using all available mechanisms."

   Russia's invasion of Ukraine and the subsequent imposition of
   international sanctions made it difficult for Western businesses to
   continue operations in Russia, and vice versa. Putin has looked to
   encourage more domestic investment, and has approved the seizing of
   Russian subsidiaries of international companies, including Danone and
   Carlsberg.

   — Holly Ellyatt

   Thu, Nov 16 20233:55 AM EST

Russia likely attempting pincer movement to encircle Avdiivka, UK says

   Russia is almost certainly attempting a pincer movement to encircle the
   town of Avdiivka, a fighting hot spot in the eastern Ukrainian region of
   Donetsk, Britain's Ministry of Defense said Thursday.

   "Over the last week, Russian forces have continued attacks towards
   outlying villages of the contested town of Avdiivka," the ministry said on
   X, formerly known as Twitter.

   Avdiivka is a small town but holds strategic importance for both sides. It
   has been fought over for nearly a decade, given fighting between
   pro-Russian separatists and Ukrainian forces since 2014, and holds
   political significance for Russia given its proximity to the city of
   Donetsk.

   "Recent advances have likely brought Russian forces close to the
   Ukrainian-held Avdiivka Coke and Chemical Plant, a sprawling industrial
   complex which produces coke and a variety of chemicals, occupies a key
   tactical position to the north of the town," the U.K. noted.

   A view of Ukraine's Avdiivka city as an airstrike on the Metinvest coke
   plant is seen in the background on Oct. 30, 2023.
   Libkos | Getty Images News | Getty Images

   "The plant dominates the main road into Avdiivka and, if Russian forces
   were to secure it, resupplying the town would become increasingly
   difficult for Ukraine."

   However, the ministry noted, the industrial facility provides Ukraine with
   a localized defensive advantage and Russian forces will probably suffer
   significant personnel losses if they attempt to assault the facility.

   — Holly Ellyatt

   Thu, Nov 16 20233:23 AM EST

UK's new foreign minister visits Kyiv

   The U.K.'s new Foreign Secretary David Cameron is in Kyiv Wednesday,
   marking his first visit to Ukraine since taking up the role on Monday.

   Announcing the visit, Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the
   pair "had a good meeting focused on weapons for the frontline,
   strengthening air defense, and protecting our people and critical
   infrastructure."

   The U.K. is one of Ukraine's staunchest Western allies and one of its
   largest individual benefactors after the U.S.

   "As Foreign Secretary, supporting Ukraine against Putin's aggression is
   vital, which is why I am pleased to make this my first visit as Secretary
   of State," Cameron said in a statement released by the British
   government. 

   "Russia thinks it can wait this war out, and that the West will eventually
   turn its attention elsewhere. This could not be further from the truth. In
   my first discussions with President Zelenskyy in my new role, I made clear
   that the U.K. and our partners will support Ukraine and its people for as
   long as it takes for them to achieve victory."

   — Holly Ellyatt

   Thu, Nov 16 20233:14 AM EST

Fierce fighting erupts after Ukrainian units cross Dnieper river into occupied
territory

   A group of Ukrainian marines at the bank of the Dnieper River at the front
   line near Kherson, Ukraine, on Oct. 14, 2023.
   Alex Babenko | AP

   Fierce fighting is taking place between Russian forces and Ukrainian units
   that crossed over the Dnieper River to the Russian-occupied left (or
   eastern) bank of the river in the southern Kherson region, analysts say.

   Fighting is concentrated around a number of villages on the east bank,
   including Krynky, where Ukraine has managed to establish footholds, but
   Russian forces are now reported to be pounding those positions. A Russian
   official warned Wednesday that "hell fire" would be rained down upon
   Ukrainian forces who had crossed the river.

   Analysts at the Institute for the Study of War painted a picture of mixed
   fortunes in the area, citing Ukrainian officials, Russian military
   bloggers closely following developments in the war and open-source
   evidence.

   "Ukrainian forces continued larger-than-usual operations on the east
   (left) bank of Kherson Oblast [region] on November 15," the ISW noted in
   analysis Wednesday.

   But it added that "Russian milbloggers claimed that Ukrainian forces
   conducted unsuccessful attacks from central Krynky ... [they] also claimed
   that Russian forces prevented Ukrainian forces from conducting casualty
   evacuation and deploying additional Ukrainian personnel to the east bank
   near the Antonivsky road bridge."

   The ISW also noted that geolocated footage published on Nov. 14 shows that
   Russian forces made some advances into Ukrainian-held Krynky, with Russian
   milbloggers claiming that the counterattacks by Russian forces forced
   Ukrainian forces to withdraw from some areas south of Krynky.

   CNBC was unable to verify developments on the ground and neither Russia
   nor Ukraine mentioned the battles taking place in the area in their
   military updates on Thursday. On Wednesday, Ukraine requested an
   "informational silence" around its maneuvers so that its "plans are put in
   motion."

   A senior Ukrainian official said Monday that Ukrainian forces managed to
   cross the Dnieper river which has essentially divided Russian and
   Ukrainian forces since a successful Ukrainian counteroffensive a year ago.
   Russia confirmed the development Wednesday.

   If Ukrainian forces can make progress on the eastern bank, it could herald
   the start of an advance southward to Russian-occupied Crimea.

   — Holly Ellyatt

   Wed, Nov 15 202311:29 AM EST

Russia's Putin says any interference attempts in Russian election will be
suppressed

   Russian President Vladimir Putin speaks after signing bilateral documents
   with his Kazakh counterpart Kassym-Jomart Tokayev in Astana, Kazakhstan
   November 9, 2023. 
   Turar Kazangapov | Reuters

   Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Wednesday that any internal and
   external attempts to interfere with the 2024 presidential election in
   Russia will be suppressed, state media outlet TASS reported.

   Putin said any measures necessary would be taken to prevent illegal
   obstruction of the election, including any pressure applied to the
   electoral process, according to a Google translation of his comments.

   Putin has not confirmed if he will run for re-election next year, however
   various news reports have cited sources saying he plans to stand for
   election once again. If he were to be re-elected, his presidency could
   extend until 2030.

   Russia has long been accused of interfering in the electoral processes of
   other countries, particularly the U.S. vote in 2016.

   Last month, the U.S. released an intelligence assessment sent to more than
   100 countries that found Moscow is using spies, social media and Russian
   state-run media to erode public faith in the integrity of democratic
   elections worldwide, Reuters reported. Russia has repeatedly rejected
   various accusations of interference.

   — Sophie Kiderlin, Holly Ellyatt

   Wed, Nov 15 20239:21 AM EST

West the biggest obstacle to peace in Ukraine, global survey finds

   The outcome of the war in Ukraine is considered a "determining, and even
   existential," factor in the future of the West, according to a survey of
   21 countries published Wednesday by the European Council on Foreign
   Relations (ECFR) thinktank and Oxford University.

   The majority of respondents outside of Europe and the U.S. said they saw
   Western nations as a bigger obstacle to peace than Russia, and more still
   viewed Moscow as the ultimate victor in the conflict.

   Almost three quarters of non-European respondents who expected Russia to
   win the war also believed the European Union could "fall apart" within the
   next 20 years, while around one third of those in the U.S. and in Europe
   shared the view.

   For many, the conflict in Ukraine was considered a "proxy war" between the
   U.S. and Russia, with majorities in Russia, China, Saudi Arabia, and
   Turkey saying they believe two Cold War powers are "already at war."

   — Karen Gilchrist

   Wed, Nov 15 20239:22 AM EST

Russia pours cold water on forthcoming Xi-Biden talks

   Russian President Vladimir Putin speaks during his press conference at the
   Konstantin Palace on July 29, 2023 in Saint Petersburg, Russia.
   Contributor | Getty Images News | Getty Images

   There was more than a hint of schadenfreude in Russian state coverage of
   the forthcoming meeting between Chinese President Xi Jinping and his U.S.
   counterpart Joe Biden in San Francisco on Wednesday, with Russia
   accentuating the geopolitical gulf between the two superpowers.

   Russia will be watching the talks closely, given its alliance with China,
   and any signs of a rapprochement between Beijing and Washington is likely
   to earn a frosty response from Moscow.

   Russian media reveled in pouring cold water on the Asia-Pacific Economic
   Cooperation (APEC) summit where Xi and Biden are due to meet Wednesday.

   A reporter for Russia's state-run RIA Novosti news agency on Tuesday
   reported that a plenary meeting of the APEC summit chaired by U.S. Trade
   Representative Katherine Tai took place "in a half-empty hall."

   RIA Novosti contrasted its image of a half-empty conference hall with the
   U.S. Trade Representative Tai emphasizing to delegates "how important this
   event is for the United States." 

   Read more on the story here: Russia relishes divisions between China and
   the U.S., pouring cold water on Xi-Biden talks

   — Holly Ellyatt

   Wed, Nov 15 20238:05 AM EST

Ukraine asks for 'informational silence' amid 'fluid' fighting on Dnieper front
line

   Ukraine requested an "informational silence," amid fierce fighting on the
   Russian-occupied left (or eastern) bank of the Dnieper River in the
   southern Kherson region.

   "The Russians understand that the advance of the defense forces is
   inevitable, but they cannot calculate from which direction they can expect
   such a danger," Natalia Humeniuk, press officer for Operational Command
   South, said Wednesday in televised comments translated by NBC News.

   Russian forces were, she said, "trying to actively defend themselves, to
   actively use heavy artillery, rocket launchers, and aviation as much as
   possible."

   "The pushback from our side is taking place on a line from 3 to 8km [up to
   5 miles] along the entire coast from the water's edge [of the Dnieper
   River]. The front line is quite fluid today," she said. 

   KHERSON OBLAST, UKRAINE - NOVEMBER 05: Destroyed buildings are seen on an
   island in the middle of the Dnieper River in Kherson, Ukraine, Nov. 5,
   2023.
   Anadolu Agency | Anadolu Agency | Getty Images

   "I cannot reveal all the measures we are currently taking, but it is
   obvious that the enemy is being pressed [by our measures]. For now, we are
   asking for informational silence so that our plans are put in motion, it
   will allow us to report on great successes later."

   Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's chief of staff Andriy Yermak
   said Monday that Ukraine's forces had gained a foothold on the left side
   of the river and were looking to advance.

   "Against all odds, Ukraine's defense forces have gained an foothold on the
   left bank of the Dnieper. Step-by-step, we demilitarized Crimea. We have
   covered 70% of the distance," he told the Hudson Institute.

   Russia confirmed the development Wednesday, but said it was pummeling a
   "small group" of Ukrainian troops near the village of Krynky.

   Vladimir Saldo, the Russian-installed governor of the occupied part of
   Kherson, claimed Ukrainian units were now trapped and were being hit with
   "bombs, rockets, ammunition from heavy flamethrower systems, artillery
   shells [and] drones."

   CNBC could not independently verify the reports.

   — Holly Ellyatt

   Wed, Nov 15 20236:02 AM EST

Russia pummels Ukrainian forces that have crossed over the Dnieper River into
occupied territory

   Russian forces are pummeling Ukrainian units that have crossed over the
   Dnieper River to the Russian-occupied left (or eastern) bank of the river
   in Kherson, a Russian-installed official said Wednesday.

   The Kherson area, in southern Ukraine, is partially occupied by Russian
   forces after an offensive to take the city of Kherson last year prompted
   Russian forces to withdraw to the eastern bank of the river.

   Ukraine reported Tuesday that its forces had established a foothold on the
   eastern bank of the river. The announcement could herald the start of an
   advance toward Russian-occupied Crimea, with Ukraine saying on Wednesday
   that it was starting to push back Russian forces.

   "Along the front line, which runs along the Dnipro [the Dnieper River]...
   The pushback from our side is taking place on a line from 3 to 8 km (2-5
   miles) along the entire bank from the water's edge," Natalia Humeniuk,
   spokesperson for the southern military command, said, in comments reported
   by Reuters.

   "For now, we will ask for informational silence ... which would allow us
   to report later on great successes," she added.

   A Ukrainian serviceman of the 123rd Territorial Defense Brigade stands
   guard on a position next to the Dnieper River, in an undisclosed location
   in the Kherson region, on Nov. 6, 2023, amid the Russian invasion of
   Ukraine.
   Roman Pilipey | Afp | Getty Images

   A Russian-installed official, Vladimir Saldo, said in Google-translated
   comments on Telegram that Ukrainian units had been able to cross the river
   — confirming for the first time that this had taken place — and said that
   initially Ukraine had sent "more manpower than our means of destruction
   were able to destroy."

   "Additional forces have now been brought up," he said, claiming that
   Ukrainian forces were blocked in the village of Krynki where "a fiery
   hell" awaited them. "Bombs, missiles, ammunition from heavy flamethrower
   systems, artillery shells, and drones are flying at him [Ukrainian forces]
   ... Over the last two or three days alone, the enemy's total losses
   amounted to about a hundred militants."

   A group of Ukrainian marines cross the Dnieper River at the frontline near
   Kherson, Ukraine, Oct. 14, 2023.
   Alex Babenko | AP

   Analysts at the Institute for the Study of War noted Tuesday that
   "Ukrainian forces are continuing their own offensive operations and making
   tactical-level gains along the front, particularly in western Zaporizhia
   Oblast [region] and on the east (left) bank of Kherson Oblast," the ISW
   noted.

   "The Russian military command will likely have to decide whether to keep
   certain Russian elements on certain sectors of the front to defend against
   ongoing Ukrainian offensive operations or to redeploy them to support
   offensive operations elsewhere that will likely culminate without
   reinforcements."

   These choices will likely hinder Russia's ability to fully regain the
   initiative in the coming weeks, the ISW said.

   CNBC was unable to verify developments on the ground.

   — Holly Ellyatt

   Thu, Nov 16 20231:30 AM EST

Read CNBC's previous live coverage here:

   Russia says ‘hell’ awaits Ukrainians after confirming they’ve crossed the
   Dnieper River into occupied territory

   logo
     * Subscribe to CNBC PRO
     * Subscribe to Investing Club
     * Licensing &amp; Reprints
     * CNBC Councils
     * Supply Chain Values
     * CNBC on Peacock
     * Join the CNBC Panel
     * Digital Products
     * News Releases
     * Closed Captioning
     * Corrections
     * About CNBC
     * Internships
     * Site Map
     * Ad Choices
     * Careers
     * Help
     * Contact
     * * * * * * * News Tips

   Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you.

   Get In Touch

    Advertise With Us

   Please Contact Us

    CNBC Newsletters

   Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox

   Sign Up Now

   Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and
   services. 

   Privacy Policy|California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) Opt-Out Icon|CA
   Notice|Terms of Service

   © 2023 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal

   Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global
   Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis.

   Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers

   Data also provided by Reuters

   comscore
</text>
</page>§
<page='en_ukraine-5'>
<text>
   Link: canonical
   Link: shortlink
   Link: image_src
   Link: alternate en
   Skip to main content / navigation
   Welcome to the United Nations

Language

     * العربية
     * 中文
     * English
     * Français
     * Русский
     * Español
     * Português
     * Kiswahili
     * Other
          * Hindi हिंदी
          * Urdu اردو
          * Global
   United Nations
   UN News
   Global perspective Human stories
   en Search
   _____________________________________________________________
   Search
   Advanced Search

Language

     * العربية
     * 中文
     * English
     * Français
     * Русский
     * Español
     * Português
     * Kiswahili
     * Other
          * Hindi हिंदी
          * Urdu اردو
          * Global
   UN News
   Global perspective Human stories

Menu

     * Home
          * Africa
          * Americas
          * Asia Pacific
          * Middle East
          * Europe
          * UN Art and Gifts
          * History Corner
     * Topics
          * Peace and Security
          * Economic Development
          * Humanitarian Aid
          * Climate and Environment
          * Human Rights
          * UN Affairs
          * Women
          * Law and Crime Prevention
          * Health
          * Culture and Education
          * SDGs
          * Migrants and Refugees
     * In depth
          * Interviews
          * Features
          * Photo Stories
          * News in Brief
          * The Lid is On
          * UN Gender Focus
          * UN and Africa
          * UN Podcasts
     * Secretary-General
          * Spokesperson
          * All Statements
          * Selected Speeches
          * Press Encounters
          * Official Travels
     * Media
          * UN Video
          * UN Photo
          * Meeting Coverage
          * Media Accreditation
          * UN Web TV

Language

     * العربية
     * 中文
     * English
     * Français
     * Русский
     * Español
     * Português
     * Kiswahili
     * Other
          * Hindi हिंदी
          * Urdu اردو
          * Global

Search

   _____________________________________________________________
   Search
   Advanced Search

Audio and Subscription

     * Audio Hub 
     * Subscribe

     Commission of Inquiry finds further evidence of war crimes in Ukraine

   A playground lies in ruins near  in the village of Groza in eastern
   Ukraine.
   © Yevhen Nosenko
   A playground lies in ruins near in the village of Groza in eastern
   Ukraine.

   Facebook Twitter Print Email

     Commission of Inquiry finds further evidence of war crimes in Ukraine

   20 October 2023 Human Rights

   A new UN report has found continued evidence of war crimes and human
   rights violations committed by Russian authorities in Ukraine, including
   torture, rape and the deportation of children. 

   The report by the Independent International Commission of Inquiry on
   Ukraine, published on Friday, follows a study issued in March.  

   Tweet URL

     UN_HRC

   It documents additional indiscriminate attacks with explosive weapons,
   resulting in deaths, injuries and the destruction and damage of civilian
   objects.

   For example, 24 people, mostly women and children, were killed in an
   attack on a multistorey block of residential apartments in Uman, a city in
   the Cherkasy region, in April, and part of the building became
   uninhabitable.  Commissioners spoke with residents during their recent
   visit to the country.

New evidence, same torture pattern

   Their investigations also confirmed previous findings that Russian
   authorities used torture in a widespread and systematic way in various
   types of detention facilities.

   New evidence collected in the Kherson and Zaporizhzhia regions found
   Russian authorities used the same pattern of torture in areas under their
   control, mainly against men suspected of passing information to the
   Ukrainian authorities or supporting the Ukrainian armed forces.

   The commissioners said their interviews with victims and witnesses
   revealed “a profound disregard towards human dignity by Russian
   authorities”. Witnesses reported situations in which torture had been
   committed so brutally that the victim died.

Lasting traumatic impacts

   Recent investigations in the Kherson and Zaporizhzhia regions showed that
   rape and other sexual violence were often committed together with
   additional acts of violence, including severe beatings, strangling,
   suffocating, slashing, shooting next to the head of the victim, and wilful
   killing.

   In one instance, a 75-year-old woman who stayed alone to protect her
   property, was raped and tortured by a Russian soldier who hit her on the
   face, chest, and ribs, and strangled her, while interrogating her.

   The soldier ordered the woman to undress and when she refused, he ripped
   off her clothes, cut her abdomen with a small sharp object and raped her
   several times. The woman also suffered several broken ribs and teeth.

   Such traumatic experiences have severe and long-term consequences for the
   physical and mental health of the victims, the report said.

Unlawful child deportations

   The Commissioners investigated further accounts of Ukrainian children
   being transferred to Russia or to Russian-occupied areas in Ukraine. They
   concluded that the transfer of 31 children to Russia in May 2022 was an
   unlawful deportation, thus a war crime.

   Their report also contains three cases where investigations showed that
   Ukrainian authorities committed violations of human rights against persons
   accused of collaboration with Russia.

   They underlined the importance of accountability “with full respect and
   care for the rights of the victims.”

   The UN Human Rights Council established the Independent Commission of
   Inquiry on Ukraine in March 2022, shortly after the start of the
   full-scale Russian invasion. The mandate was extended in April for an
   additional year.

   The three Commissioners are not UN staff and do not receive payment for
   their work. 

   ♦ Receive daily updates directly in your inbox - Subscribe here to a
   topic.
   ♦ Download the UN News app for your iOS or Android devices.
    
     * Commission of Inquiry on Ukraine

Related Stories

   The city of Kharkiv, in northeastern Ukraine has been severely damaged by
   bombing.

  Russia’s energy grid attacks, torture in Ukraine, could be crimes against
  humanity: UN rights probe

   In Lviv, Ukraine, a 12-year-old boy rests on a bed at Saint Nicholas
   Pediatric Hospital. (file)

  ‘Immense challenges’ block justice for Ukrainian war victims, rights experts
  warn

   Humanitarian aid has been stalled near the Rafah, Egypt, border crossing
   since 14 October 2023.

  Explainer: A look inside the Gaza crossing convoy

News Tracker: Past Stories on This Issue

   International Criminal Court permanent headquarters in The Hague.

  International Criminal Court: Russia urged to withdraw arrest warrants for
  judges

   13 October 2023
   Human Rights

   The UN human rights office, OHCHR, on Friday said it was “deeply
   concerned” by Russia’s decision to issue arrest warrants against senior
   judges of the International Criminal Court (ICC), following earlier
   warrants against its Prosecutor and Pre-trial Judges involved in examining
   potential war crimes in Ukraine. 

Resources

     * Navigate the News
     * Information for Broadcasters
     * UN System Links
     * Media Alert
     * UN Journal
     * Meetings Coverage
     * Audiovisual Library

Secretary-General

     * All Statements
     * Official Travels
     * Press Encounters
     * SG Twitter

Spokesperson's Office

     * Latest Statements
     * Briefing Highlights
     * Briefing Transcripts
     * Notes to Correspondents

Find Us

     * UN News App
     * Facebook
     * Twitter
     * YouTube
     * RSS
     * Contact UN News

Footer menu

     * A-Z Site Index
     * Copyright
     * FAQ
     * Fraud Alert
     * Privacy Notice
     * Terms of Use

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

Social Media Links

     * *  *  *  *  *  *  * Footer buttons

     * Donate

   Facebook Twitter Print Email
</text>
</page>§
<page='en_ukraine-6'>
<text>
   Link: canonical
   Menu Fermer
   _____________________ [ Submit ]
     * Page d'accueil
     * Culture
     * Économie + Entreprise
     * Éducation
     * Environnement
     * International
     * Politique + Société
     * Santé
     * Science
     * Podcasts
     * En anglais

  Édition

   Africa
   Australia
   Brasil
   Canada
   Canada (français)
   España
   Europe
   France
   Global
   Indonesia
   New Zealand
   United Kingdom
   United States
   The Conversation
     * * Édition:
   Éditions disponibles
   France
     * Africa
     * Australia
     * Brasil
     * Canada
     * Canada (français)
     * España
     * Europe
     * Global
     * Indonesia
     * New Zealand
     * United Kingdom
     * United States
     * Faire un don
     * Recevoir nos newsletters
     * Devenir un auteur
     * S’abonner comme lecteur
     * Connexion
   The Conversation
   Recherchez
   _____________________
   [ Recherche ]
   L’expertise universitaire, l’exigence journalistique
    1. Culture
    2. Économie + Entreprise
    3. Éducation
    4. Environnement
    5. International
    6. Politique + Société
    7. Santé
    8. Science
    9. Podcasts
   10. En anglais
   Vladmir Putin lays roses on coffins during a memorial service.
   EPA-EFE/Mikhail Metzel/Kremlin pool/Sputnik

   Ukraine: Russia’s losses mount – but self-sacrifice in war is part of the
                              country’s mythology

   Publié: 18 octobre 2023, 18:20 CEST
   Ben Soodavar, King's College London

  auteur

    1. [IMG] Ben Soodavar

       Researcher, Department of War Studies, King's College London

  Déclaration d’intérêts

   Ben Soodavar ne travaille pas, ne conseille pas, ne possède pas de parts,
   ne reçoit pas de fonds d'une organisation qui pourrait tirer profit de cet
   article, et n'a déclaré aucune autre affiliation que son organisme de
   recherche.

  Partenaires

   King's College London

   King's College London apporte un financement en tant que membre adhérent
   de The Conversation UK.

   Voir les partenaires de The Conversation France

   Adresse électronique
   Twitter
   Facebook
   Linkedin
   WhatsApp
   Messenger

   A recent intelligence report published by the UK’s Ministry of Defence
   about Russia’s attempt to capture the town of Avdiivka in the Donetsk
   region is the latest illustration of just how much the conflict in Ukraine
   is becoming a war of attrition. Russia’s push to mount a new offensive in
   the east has resulted in substantive “personnel losses” for its military.

   In the west, many assume that every inch of Ukrainian land that is
   liberated brings Russia closer to military defeat and Europe to peace. But
   Russia has adapted to both internal and external shocks. As of August, it
   was estimated that Russia had suffered “as many as 120,000 deaths”. That
   number will have risen in recent weeks. And as the death toll climbs, the
   ability to replace troops becomes as important as military equipment and
   technology.

   Even though many young men left Russia rather than be sent to the front,
   the country still has a large pool of young men from which to recruit and
   has claimed to have enlisted a large number without resorting to general
   conscription – although the Kremlin’s figures have been questioned by
   other sources.

   But the question remains as to how many Russian military deaths is too
   many for Putin to retain the support of the Russian people. And it’s a
   very difficult question to answer. In Russia, the notion of military
   sacrifice plays an important role in informing national identity.

   [ Submit ]

   Russia’s national story is constituted by loss. It has lived and continues
   to live a tale of self-induced suffering. Even just considering the past
   century, military losses during the second world war and in Afghanistan –
   followed by the loss of a sense of identity after the collapse of the
   Soviet empire in 1991 – have all come to define Russia’s character today.
   The sense of the “loss of empire” is what has driven Vladimir Putin’s
   foreign adventurism in Georgia and Ukraine.

For the motherland

   For the British people, the death of 179 solidiers in Iraq was traumatic
   enough for leaders to change course. But military sacrifice has a
   different meaning in Russia, one that is diametrically opposed to the
   value the liberal west places on the individual subject.

   For Russia, every dead soldier in Ukraine constitutes a step towards
   victory and reclaiming the great power image of the country’s Soviet past.
   While the west’s liberal philosophy promulgates the importance of
   individual rights, Russia is defined by a system of collectivism. Within
   its value system, the individual subject confers prestige through their
   self-sacrifice for the collective wellbeing.

   In Soviet iconography, tropes of self-sacrifice and fatal injury tend to
   be closely tied to nationalist ideas of pride and superiority. They
   pervaded propaganda posters during the “great patriotic war”.

   Image of 'For the Motherland' 1942 Russian propaganda poster by Aleksei
   Kokorekin
   Russia’s notion of sacrifice: ‘For the Motherland’ (1942).

   Take the image For the Motherland! (1942) by Aleksei Kokorekin as an
   example. It conveyed Soviet resilience through the portrayal of a wounded
   soldier fighting on bravely and showing no sign of physical weakness
   despite his injuries.

   This juxtaposition between the injured self and national status is
   telling. Kokorekin’s depiction of Soviet heroism was also indicative of
   the Soviet mentality on death – where the emphasis on physical suffering
   became a source of national superiority.

Spirituality of loss

   This logic permeated the consciousness of subsequent generations and in
   how they interpreted military sacrifice. For her 1990 study Tsinkovye
   mal’chiki (translated as Zinky Boys) by Nobel prize-winning writer
   Svetlana Aleksievich, the author interviewed army veterans from the
   campaign in Afghanistan. She recalled how in one interview an artillery
   soldier described war as “a spiritual experience”, while referencing the
   self-sacrifice of the Red Army during the great patriotic war.

   This experience of spirituality through war not only reflects how Russians
   seek to replay and become part of the past, but speaks to the religious
   dimension of Russia’s discourse on self-sacrifice. This theme emerged
   strongly in comments by Patriarch Kirill, the head of the Russian Orthodox
   Church, in September 2022, in which he was encouraging Russian men to join
   up.

     …if a person dies in the performance of this duty [war], then they have
     undoubtedly committed an act equivalent to sacrifice. They will have
     sacrificed themselves for others. And therefore, we believe that this
     sacrifice washes away all the sins that a person has committed.

   His statement rationalised the self-sacrifice of the Russian soldier on
   the basis that it served a transcendental duty – a Christ-like sacrifice –
   which would ultimately absolve them from sin. The patriarch’s comments
   speak to a particular historical tradition of religious masochism – the
   practice of self-induced physical trauma – in Russia, which dates back to
   “the early days of Christian Rus’”.

Military martyrdom

   Deciphering this internal logic governing the way many Russians deal with
   loss is imperative to the west’s understanding of the Ukraine war. Putin
   draws on a language of sacrifice which has its cultural and historical
   roots in Russian Orthodox thinking and Soviet mythology.

   This language reveals something important about Russian psychology when it
   comes to dealing with news of large-scale casualties on the battlefield. A
   soldier’s body is a potent mixture of the political and spiritual in the
   Russian psyche.

   The death of that body is for Russia a step towards achieving the fantasy
   of national prestige. For some Russians (by no means all), the trauma of
   military loss does not mean that they should stop fighting in Ukraine. On
   the contrary, it can represent a pathway to martyrdom.

     * Russia
     * World War II
     * Vladimir Putin
     * Russian history
     * Red Army
     * Ukraine invasion 2022
     * Educate me

  Notre audience

   Le réseau global The Conversation a une audience mensuelle de 18 millions
   de lecteurs et une audience globale de 42 millions à travers les
   republications sous la licence Creative Commons.

  Vous voulez écrire ?

   Écrivez un article et rejoignez une communauté de plus de 175 800
   universitaires et chercheurs de 4 836 institutions.

   Enregistrez-vous maintenant

     * Ce que nous sommes
     * Notre équipe
     * Nos valeurs
     * Charte éditoriale
     * Règles de republication
     * Recevoir nos newsletters
     * Nos flux
     * Faire un don
     * Nos institutions membres
     * Kit de communication pour les institution membres
     * Événements
     * Transparence financière
     * Contactez-nous
     * ​
     * ​
     * ​
     * ​
   Politique de confidentialité Préférences de consentement Mentions légales

   Droits d'auteur © 2010–2023, The Conversation France (assoc. 1901)
</text>
</page>§
<page='en_ukraine-7'>
<text>
   Link: canonical
   Link: amphtml
   Skip to main contentSkip to navigationSkip to navigation
   Print subscriptions
   Sign in
   Search jobs
   Search
   Europe edition [ ]
     * Europe edition
     * UK edition
     * US edition
     * Australia edition
     * International edition
   The Guardian - Back to homeThe Guardian
   [ ]
     * News
     * Opinion
     * Sport
     * Culture
     * Lifestyle
   ShowMoreShow More
     * [ ] News
          * View all News
          * World news
          * UK news
          * Climate crisis
          * Ukraine
          * Environment
          * Science
          * Global development
          * Football
          * Tech
          * Business
          * Obituaries
     * [ ] Opinion
          * View all Opinion
          * The Guardian view
          * Columnists
          * Cartoons
          * Opinion videos
          * Letters
     * [ ] Sport
          * View all Sport
          * Football
          * Cricket
          * Rugby union
          * Tennis
          * Cycling
          * F1
          * Golf
          * US sports
     * [ ] Culture
          * View all Culture
          * Books
          * Music
          * TV &amp; radio
          * Art &amp; design
          * Film
          * Games
          * Classical
          * Stage
     * [ ] Lifestyle
          * View all Lifestyle
          * Fashion
          * Food
          * Recipes
          * Love &amp; sex
          * Health &amp; fitness
          * Home &amp; garden
          * Women
          * Men
          * Family
          * Travel
          * Money
     * Search input
       _____________________
       google-search
       Search
       [ Submit ]
          * Support us
          * Print subscriptions
     * [ ] Europe edition
          * UK edition
          * US edition
          * Australia edition
          * International edition
     *    * Search jobs
          * Holidays
          * Digital Archive
          * Guardian Puzzles app
          * Guardian Licensing
          * About Us
          * The Guardian app
          * Video
          * Podcasts
          * Pictures
          * Newsletters
          * Today's paper
          * Inside the Guardian
          * The Observer
          * Guardian Weekly
          * Crosswords
          * Wordiply
          * Corrections
     *    * Facebook
          * Twitter
     *    * Search jobs
          * Holidays
          * Digital Archive
          * Guardian Puzzles app
          * Guardian Licensing
          * About Us
     * World
     * Europe
     * US
     * Americas
     * Asia
     * Australia
     * Middle East
     * Africa
     * Inequality
     * Global development
   Ukrainian Emergency Service workers tend to a man on a road outside in
   Avdiivka, Donetsk region, amid the Russian invasion in Ukraine
   [ ]
   Ukrainian emergency workers tend to a man on a road outside in Avdiivka,
   Donetsk region, amid the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Photograph: Anatolii
   Stepanov/AFP/Getty Images
   Ukrainian emergency workers tend to a man on a road outside in Avdiivka,
   Donetsk region, amid the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Photograph: Anatolii
   Stepanov/AFP/Getty Images
   Russia-Ukraine war at a glanceUkraine
   Explainer

            Russia-Ukraine war at a glance: what we know on day 629

   Ukrainian forces secure foothold on east bank of Dnipro River; Russia
   increasing use of kamikaze drones

     * See all our Ukraine coverage

    Yohannes Lowe and Guardian staff

   Tue 14 Nov 2023 20.12 CETFirst published on Tue 14 Nov 2023 02.01 CET
     * * * * Ukrainian forces have secured a foothold on the east bank of the
       Dnipro River in southern Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskiy’s chief of staff
       was quoted as saying. Andriy Yermak’s remarks were the first official
       acknowledgment that Ukrainian troops were established on the Dnipro’s
       east bank in Kherson region, Reuters reported.

     * A top Ukrainian military official has said Russian troops have
       continued simultaneous assault attempts in several directions on the
       country’s east, and are increasing the use of kamikaze drones, Reuters
       reported. The head of Ukraine’s ground forces, Gen Oleksandr Syrskyi,
       said that Russia, despite high losses, has been attacking Ukrainian
       positions near Kupiansk. “In addition, the enemy has increased the use
       of kamikaze drones,” he said on Telegram.

     * Serhiy Lysak, the governor of the Dnipropetrovsk region, said Russia
       had hit Nikopol region 11 times on Tuesday, using kamikaze drones and
       artillery. He wrote on Telegram that the district centre was most
       heavily targeted and that a 26-year-old man died.

     * The former detective Sergei Khadzhikurbanov, convicted for his role in
       the 2006 killing of investigative journalist Anna Politkovskaya, has
       been pardoned after fighting in Ukraine, his lawyer said. “As a
       special forces fighter, he was invited to sign a contract to
       participate in the special military operation … When the contract
       expired, he was pardoned by presidential decree,” lawyer Alexei
       Mikhalchik told AFP.

     * Ukraine’s president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, has said Russia is
       increasing its attacks across the frontline, AFP reported. “The
       military reported an increase in the number of enemy assaults,”
       Zelenskiy wrote on Telegram on Tuesday, saying Russian forces were
       attacking around Donetsk, Kupiansk and Avdiivka.

     * The former detective Sergei Khadzhikurbanov, convicted for his role in
       the 2006 killing of investigative journalist Anna Politkovskaya, has
       been pardoned after fighting in Ukraine, his lawyer said. “As a
       special forces fighter, he was invited to sign a contract to
       participate in the special military operation … When the contract
       expired, he was pardoned by presidential decree,” lawyer Alexei
       Mikhalchik told AFP.

     * Vladimir Putin has approved changes to the law that governs
       presidential elections by putting new restrictions on media coverage,
       local news agencies reported.

     * The EU will miss its target of supplying Ukraine with 1m artillery
       shells and missiles by next March, the German defence minister said.
       Boris Pistorius’s comments, the first public admission by a senior
       European minister that the target would not be met, were made before a
       summit of EU defence ministers in Brussels on Wednesday.

     * Russian shelling on Monday damaged a hospital and homes in the
       southern Ukrainian city of Kherson, killing three people and injuring
       at least 12, local governor Oleksandr Prokudin said.

     * Xi Jinping and Joe Biden are expected to discuss Ukraine, the Middle
       East, North Korea’s ties with Russia, Taiwan, human rights, artificial
       intelligence, in a meeting scheduled for Wednesday at the Apec summit.

     * At least three Russian officers were killed in the Moscow-controlled
       Ukrainian city of Melitopol in a blast Ukraine’s intelligence said was
       an “act of revenge” by local resistance groups.

     * US secretary of state Antony Blinken and newly appointed British
       foreign secretary David Cameron discussed the Israel-Hamas conflict,
       relations with China and help for Ukraine during a telephone call on
       Monday, the state department said. “Secretary Blinken and Lord Cameron
       underscored continuity in the US-UK special relationship and its
       importance to regional and global security,” state department
       spokesperson Matthew Miller said in a readout of the conversation.

     * Blinken promised a top Ukrainian official that sustained US support
       including help to get through the winter, with Russia expected to
       strike Kyiv’s infrastructure again. Blinken met Andriy Yermak, a top
       aide to President Volodymyr Zelenskiy, on a brief stop in Washington
       in between the top US diplomat’s latest Middle East crisis tour and an
       Asia-Pacific summit in San Francisco.

     * Save Ukraine, an organisation that focuses on rescuing Ukraine’s most
       vulnerable people, has said its rescuers have evacuated more than
       108,880 people from the frontlines since Russia launched its
       full-scale invasion in February 2022. It said its rescue network
       provided humanitarian assistance to more than 186,450 people, with its
       hotline operators fielding more than 161,425 calls from Ukrainians in
       urgent need of assistance.

   Explore more on these topics
     * Ukraine
     * Russia-Ukraine war at a glance
     * Russia
     * Europe
     * explainers
     * * * * * * Reuse this content

Most viewed

Most viewed

     * World
     * Europe
     * US
     * Americas
     * Asia
     * Australia
     * Middle East
     * Africa
     * Inequality
     * Global development
     * News
     * Opinion
     * Sport
     * Culture
     * Lifestyle
   Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every
   morning
   Sign up for our email
     * Help
     * Complaints &amp; corrections
     * SecureDrop
     * Work for us
     *  
     * Privacy policy
     * Cookie policy
     * Terms &amp; conditions
     * Contact us
     * All topics
     * All writers
     * Digital newspaper archive
     * Facebook
     * YouTube
     * Instagram
     * LinkedIn
     * Twitter
     * Newsletters
     * Advertise with us
     * Search UK jobs
   Back to top
   © 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All
   rights reserved. (dcr)
</text>
</page>§
<page='en_ukraine-8'>
<text>
   Link: canonical
   Link: amphtml
   Skip to main contentSkip to navigationSkip to key eventsSkip to navigation
   Print subscriptions
   Sign in
   Search jobs
   Search
   Europe edition [ ]
     * Europe edition
     * UK edition
     * US edition
     * Australia edition
     * International edition
   The Guardian - Back to homeThe Guardian
   [ ]
     * News
     * Opinion
     * Sport
     * Culture
     * Lifestyle
   ShowMoreShow More
     * [ ] News
          * View all News
          * World news
          * UK news
          * Climate crisis
          * Ukraine
          * Environment
          * Science
          * Global development
          * Football
          * Tech
          * Business
          * Obituaries
     * [ ] Opinion
          * View all Opinion
          * The Guardian view
          * Columnists
          * Cartoons
          * Opinion videos
          * Letters
     * [ ] Sport
          * View all Sport
          * Football
          * Cricket
          * Rugby union
          * Tennis
          * Cycling
          * F1
          * Golf
          * US sports
     * [ ] Culture
          * View all Culture
          * Books
          * Music
          * TV &amp; radio
          * Art &amp; design
          * Film
          * Games
          * Classical
          * Stage
     * [ ] Lifestyle
          * View all Lifestyle
          * Fashion
          * Food
          * Recipes
          * Love &amp; sex
          * Health &amp; fitness
          * Home &amp; garden
          * Women
          * Men
          * Family
          * Travel
          * Money
     * Search input
       _____________________
       google-search
       Search
       [ Submit ]
          * Support us
          * Print subscriptions
     * [ ] Europe edition
          * UK edition
          * US edition
          * Australia edition
          * International edition
     *    * Search jobs
          * Holidays
          * Digital Archive
          * Guardian Puzzles app
          * Guardian Licensing
          * About Us
          * The Guardian app
          * Video
          * Podcasts
          * Pictures
          * Newsletters
          * Today's paper
          * Inside the Guardian
          * The Observer
          * Guardian Weekly
          * Crosswords
          * Wordiply
          * Corrections
     *    * Facebook
          * Twitter
     *    * Search jobs
          * Holidays
          * Digital Archive
          * Guardian Puzzles app
          * Guardian Licensing
          * About Us
     * World
     * Europe
     * US
     * Americas
     * Asia
     * Australia
     * Middle East
     * Africa
     * Inequality
     * Global development
   Ukraine war liveUkraine
   This article is more than 1 month old

  Ukraine has claimed initiative in Black Sea and forced Russian navy to pull
                     back, Zelenskiy says – as it happened

   This article is more than 1 month old

   Ukraine’s president says use of naval drones has prevented Russia from
   using Black Sea as springboard. This live blog is closed

    Updated 16 Nov 2023

    Sammy Gecsoyler, Geneva Abdul and Warren Murray

   Thu 16 Nov 2023 17.58 CETFirst published on Thu 16 Nov 2023 08.56 CET
     * * * Key events
     * 16 Nov 2023
       Closing summary
     * 16 Nov 2023
       Russia has sustained casualties of 300,000-400,000, western officials
       say
     * 16 Nov 2023
       Summary
     * 16 Nov 2023
       Ukraine has claimed initiative in Black Sea and forced Russian navy to
       pull back, Zelenskiy says
     * 16 Nov 2023
       EU plans fresh Russia sanctions including against son of Dmitry
       Medvedev
     * 16 Nov 2023
       Foreign secretary David Cameron makes first visit to Ukraine
     * 16 Nov 2023
       Summary
   In this image from August 2023, what Ukraine claims is a seaborne drone
   approaches a Russian tanker on the Black Sea.
   [ ]
   In this image from August 2023, what Ukraine claims is a seaborne drone
   approaches a Russian tanker on the Black Sea. Photograph: AP
   In this image from August 2023, what Ukraine claims is a seaborne drone
   approaches a Russian tanker on the Black Sea. Photograph: AP

    Sammy Gecsoyler, Geneva Abdul and Warren Murray

   Thu 16 Nov 2023 17.58 CETFirst published on Thu 16 Nov 2023 08.56 CET
     * * * [ Submit ]Show key events only
   Please turn on JavaScript to use this feature

Live feed

   [ ]
   From 16 Nov 2023
   13.08 CET

Ukraine has claimed initiative in Black Sea and forced Russian navy to pull
back, Zelenskiy says

   The president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, said on Thursday that Ukraine had
   seized the initiative from Russia in the Black Sea and forced Russia’s
   naval fleet to pull back in the eastern part of the sea.

   “For the first time in the world, it was in the Black Sea that a fleet of
   naval drones began to operate – a Ukrainian fleet,” Zelenskiy wrote on the
   Telegram.

   “I would also like to note that now – as one of the main results of our
   actions – Russia is unable to use the Black Sea as a springboard to
   destabilise other regions of the world.”

     * * Updated at 14.16 CET
   Key events
     * 16 Nov 2023
       Closing summary
     * 16 Nov 2023
       Russia has sustained casualties of 300,000-400,000, western officials
       say
     * 16 Nov 2023
       Summary
     * 16 Nov 2023
       Ukraine has claimed initiative in Black Sea and forced Russian navy to
       pull back, Zelenskiy says
     * 16 Nov 2023
       EU plans fresh Russia sanctions including against son of Dmitry
       Medvedev
     * 16 Nov 2023
       Foreign secretary David Cameron makes first visit to Ukraine
     * 16 Nov 2023
       Summary
   [ Submit ]Show key events only
   Please turn on JavaScript to use this feature
   16 Nov 202317.58 CET

Closing summary

   The Ukraine live blog is coming to a close. Below is a summary of the
   day’s events:

     * Volodymyr Zelenskiy said that Ukraine had seized the initiative from
       Russia in the Black Sea and forced Russia’s naval fleet to pull back
       in the eastern part of the sea.

     * The foreign secretary, David Cameron, met the Ukrainian president,
       Volodymyr Zelenskiy, during a trip to Kyiv, pledging continued
       military support and a refocus on Ukraine as conflict continues in the
       Middle East.

     * At least one person was killed and two injured during Russian shelling
       of the southern Ukrainian Kherson region, the local governor Oleksandr
       Prokudin said.

     * The Ukrainian military shot down 16 out of 18 attack drones launched
       by Russia as well as one missile during overnight strikes, Kyiv’s air
       force said.

     * Rescuers cleared rubble from a Russian strike on a residential
       building in the eastern Ukrainian town of Selydove the previous day,
       and one more body was recovered, taking the death toll to three, an
       emergency service said.

     * Russian forces have continued attacks in the contested town of
       Avdiivka in Donetsk oblast, according to the UK’s Ministry of Defence.
       In the latest intelligence update, the MoD said: “Russia is almost
       certainly attempting a pincer movement to encircle the town.”

     * The European Commission has proposed a 12th round of sanctions against
       Moscow, including restrictions on scores of individuals apparently
       including the son of former president Dmitry Medvedev and a relative
       of Vladimir Putin’s.

     * Finland will close four of the nine crossing points on its border with
       Russia to stem a flow of asylum seekers to the Nordic nation, the
       prime minister, Petteri Orpo, said on Thursday.

     * The Kremlin has said that the Czech Republic’s decision to freeze
       Russian state-owned properties was illegal and that Moscow may
       retaliate against what it called a hostile step.

     * The Russian financial watchdog Rosfinmonitoring has placed three
       lawyers for the jailed opposition politician Alexei Navalny on a list
       of “terrorists and extremists”.

     * A Russian court has found the artist and musician Alexandra
       Skochilenko guilty of knowingly spreading fake news about the Russian
       army’s behaviour in Ukraine and sentenced her to seven years in a
       prison colony. Amnesty International has declared 33-year-old
       Skochilenko – who replaced supermarket price tags with messages
       calling for an end to Moscow’s war in Ukraine – “a prisoner of
       conscience”.

     * * 16 Nov 202317.44 CET

Russia has sustained casualties of 300,000-400,000, western officials say

   Dan Sabbagh
   Dan Sabbagh

   Russia has sustained casualties of between 300,000 and 400,000 killed and
   wounded in the war in Ukraine so far, and in the heaviest fighting at
   Avdiivka is losing between 500 and 1,000 a day according to a briefing by
   western officials.

   The officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, nevertheless
   acknowledged that Ukraine's counter offensive on the Zaporizhzhia front
   has essentially culminated, although "three brigades" are believed to have
   made it across the Dnipro river near Kherson.

   "Neither side is capable of mounting a decisive operation on land," one of
   the officials said, and it appeared that "a prolonged conflict" was likely
   to follow in which long term US and European military aid would be
   crucial.

   A significant force, described as three brigades, had established a
   position across the Dnipro that the Russians have proved unable to
   dislodge, although it was unclear, they said, how much armour the
   Ukrainian military had been able to get across the river.

   But despite the cross-river success, the officials said they expected that
   Ukraine would most likely only be able to make incremental "village at a
   time" progress, a similar pace to summer efforts south of Orikhiv and
   Velyka Novosilka.

     * * 16 Nov 202316.25 CET

   The US has issued a new round of Russia-related sanctions targeting three
   Liberian-flagged crude tankers, among others, according to a notice posted
   on the US treasury department website on Thursday, Reuters reports.

     * * Updated at 16.33 CET
   16 Nov 202316.02 CET

   Nato’s secretary general, Jens Stoltenberg, met Edgars Rinkēvičs, the
   president of Latvia, on Thursday where they discussed giving Ukraine more
   support.

     Welcomed @edgarsrinkevics back to #NATO &amp; congratulated him on his
     appointment as President of #Latvia. We addressed #Ukraine, where the
     difficult situation on the battlefield is an argument for even more
     support. We also look forward to welcoming #Sweden as an Ally very soon.
     pic.twitter.com/npOHO5bBeG

     — Jens Stoltenberg (@jensstoltenberg) November 16, 2023

     * * Updated at 16.04 CET
   16 Nov 202315.30 CET

   The UK defence secretary, Grant Shapps, has said the government will back
   British defence companies that “help nations like Ukraine” against efforts
   to defund the industry due to “so-called ethical investing rules”.

     British defence companies keep us safe, help nations like Ukraine defend
     their freedom &amp; act as global champions for the UK.

     We’ll back them all the way against those who want to defund the
     industry due to so-called ethical investing rules that are not only
     immoral but dangerous pic.twitter.com/IA1uX5pOj1

     — Rt Hon Grant Shapps MP (@grantshapps) November 16, 2023

     * * Updated at 15.49 CET
   16 Nov 202315.05 CET

Summary

   Welcome to the Guardian’s live coverage of the Russian war against
   Ukraine. Here in brief are some of the main developments:

   David Cameron, the UK’s new foreign minister visits Ukraine.
   David Cameron, the UK’s new foreign minister visits Ukraine.
   Photograph: Global Images Ukraine/Getty
     * The foreign secretary, David Cameron, met the Ukrainian president,
       Volodymyr Zelenskiy, during a trip to Kyiv, pledging continued
       military support and a refocus on Ukraine as conflict continues in the
       Middle East.

     * At least one person was killed and two injured during Russian shelling
       of the southern Ukrainian Kherson region, the local governor Oleksandr
       Prokudin said.

     * The Ukrainian military shot down 16 out of 18 attack drones launched
       by Russia as well as one missile during overnight strikes, Kyiv’s air
       force said.

     * Rescuers cleared rubble from a Russian strike on a residential
       building in the eastern Ukrainian town of Selydove the previous day,
       and one more body was recovered, taking the death toll to three, an
       emergency service said.

     * Russian forces have continued attacks in the contested town of
       Avdiivka in Donetsk oblast, according to the UK’s Ministry of Defence.
       In the latest intelligence update, the MoD said: “Russia is almost
       certainly attempting a pincer movement to encircle the town.”

     * The European Commission has proposed a 12th round of sanctions against
       Moscow, including restrictions on scores of individuals apparently
       including the son of former president Dmitry Medvedev and a relative
       of Vladimir Putin’s.

     * Finland will close four of the nine crossing points on its border with
       Russia to stem a flow of asylum seekers to the Nordic nation, the
       prime minister, Petteri Orpo, said on Thursday.

     * The Kremlin has said that the Czech Republic’s decision to freeze
       Russian state-owned properties was illegal and that Moscow may
       retaliate against what it called a hostile step.

     * The Russian financial watchdog Rosfinmonitoring has placed three
       lawyers for the jailed opposition politician Alexei Navalny on a list
       of “terrorists and extremists”.

     * Volodymyr Zelenskiy said that Ukraine had seized the initiative from
       Russia in the Black Sea and forced Russia’s naval fleet to pull back
       in the eastern part of the sea.

     * A Russian court has found the artist and musician Alexandra
       Skochilenko guilty of knowingly spreading fake news about the Russian
       army’s behaviour in Ukraine and sentenced her to seven years in a
       prison colony. Amnesty International has declared 33-year-old
       Skochilenko – who replaced supermarket price tags with messages
       calling for an end to Moscow’s war in Ukraine – “a prisoner of
       conscience”.

   Russian artist Alexandra Skochilenko, 33, accused of spreading
   disinformation about the Russian army for changing supermarket price tags
   with messages criticising Russia’s military offensive in Ukraine.
   The Russian artist Alexandra Skochilenko, 33, accused of spreading
   disinformation about the Russian army for changing supermarket price tags
   with messages criticising Russia’s military offensive in Ukraine.
   Photograph: Olga Maltseva/AFP/Getty
     * * Updated at 15.43 CET
   16 Nov 202314.43 CET

   Russia’s state nuclear power corporation has reported that turbine blades
   broke at a plant where the company has installed two reactors of a type it
   is also building in Turkey and plans to construct in Hungary.

   Rosenergoatom, which runs Russia’s nuclear power stations, said it was not
   clear what caused the blades to break, forcing the shutdown of a unit at
   the Leningrad nuclear power plant west of St Petersburg on Sunday.

   “The main thing now is to understand the reason for the destruction of the
   blades. This is a new phenomenon,” said Alexander Shutikov, the head of
   Rosenergoatom. He said repairs should be completed by 22 December.

   The unit where the problem occurred was built in 2018 with a
   next-generation VVER 1200, a pressurised water reactor. Units of this type
   are being built by Russia at the Akkuyu nuclear power plant in Turkey and
   are planned for the Paks-2 plant in Hungary. Russia has already supplied
   them to Belarus.

   Shutikov said the blades that failed were part of a 1,200MW high-speed
   steam turbine. The turbines are produced by the businessman Alexei
   Mordashov’s Power Machines company.

   Power Machines said turbines of the same type had operated without
   problems since 2016 at four power units. It said it was taking all steps
   to restart the affected unit as soon as possible and working with
   specialists from the plant to investigate the causes and identify defects.

   “Based on the results, conclusions will be drawn and compensatory measures
   will be determined,” it said in reply to a request for comment from
   Reuters.

   Rosatom, the parent of Rosenergoatom, said similar turbine models are in
   operation at another unit of the Leningrad plant and in the southern
   Voronezh region. The company said it always investigates and corrects any
   malfunction.

   “Since turbines are not part of the ‘nuclear island’ of the plant, their
   malfunctioning has no impact on nuclear safety, as all reactor equipment
   is functioning as intended,” it said.

     * * Updated at 14.47 CET
   16 Nov 202314.22 CET

   At least one person was killed and two injured during Russian shelling of
   the southern Ukrainian Kherson region, the local governor Oleksandr
   Prokudin said on Thursday.

   “The enemy fire damaged residential buildings and a grocery store. A
   critical infrastructure facility was also destroyed,” Prokudin said on the
   Telegram messaging app, Reuters reports.

   Russian troops abandoned Kherson and the western bank of the Dnipro River
   in the region late last year, but now regularly shell those areas from
   positions on the eastern bank.

   The Guardian could not independently confirm the report.

     * * Updated at 14.27 CET
   16 Nov 202314.14 CET

   Here are the latest images coming across the wires from Ukraine:

   People are reflected in a pane of glass as they walk in Sophia Square in
   front of Saint Sophia Cathedral in Kyiv.
   People are reflected in a pane of glass as they walk in Sophia Square in
   front of Saint Sophia Cathedral in Kyiv. Photograph: Thomas Peter/Reuters
   Ukrainian soldiers of the 72nd Mechanised Brigade on duty.
   Ukrainian soldiers of the 72nd Mechanised Brigade on duty. Photograph:
   Anadolu/Getty Images
   Russian artist and musician Sasha Skochilenko, 33, holds the notes of her
   speech before the court, ahead of a hearing in St. Petersburg, Russia.
   The Russian artist and musician Sasha Skochilenko, 33, holds the notes of
   her speech before the court, ahead of a hearing in St Petersburg, Russia.
   Photograph: Anatoly Maltsev/EPA
   A Ukrainian soldier of the 67th brigade in his combat position on the
   frontline.
   A Ukrainian soldier of the 67th brigade in his combat position on the
   frontline. Photograph: Anadolu/Getty Images
     * * Updated at 14.35 CET
   16 Nov 202313.58 CET

   A Russian court on Thursday found the artist and musician Alexandra
   Skochilenko guilty of knowingly spreading fake news about the Russian
   army’s behaviour in Ukraine and sentenced her to seven years in a prison
   colony.

   Russian artist Alexandra Skochilenko, 33.
   Russian artist Alexandra Skochilenko, 33. Photograph: Olga
   Maltseva/AFP/Getty Images

   Skochilenko, 33, replaced price tags in a supermarket in her native St
   Petersburg on 31 March 2022 with small pieces of paper urging an end to
   Russia’s war in Ukraine and criticising the authorities.

   She denied the formal charge of knowingly spreading false information
   about the army.

     * * Updated at 14.14 CET
   16 Nov 202313.42 CET

   David Cameron has travelled to Kyiv for his first trip as UK foreign
   secretary in an unannounced visit just days after his surprise
   appointment.

   As he met Ukraine’s president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, Cameron pledged that
   long-term British support for Ukraine would continue. The meeting came
   amid concern in Ukraine around global support, with the conflict in the
   Middle East taking attention away from the country, and longer-term
   questions about western financial support as the US heads into an election
   cycle

   Ukraine: David Cameron meets Zelenskiy and pledges continued UK military
   support – video
   00:00:51
   Ukraine: David Cameron meets Zelenskiy and pledges continued UK military
   support – video
     * * Updated at 14.14 CET
   16 Nov 202313.34 CET

   Russian authorities on Wednesday detained two senior employees from
   Carlsberg’s Russian subsidiary, Baltika Breweries, over allegations of
   fraud, and made similar claims against several others, the Danish brewer
   Carlsberg said on Thursday.

   The company said in a statement the allegations were “fake”.

   Moscow in July took control of Carlsberg’s stake in Baltika through a
   presidential decree, saying it would put the foreign-owned stake under
   “temporary management”.

   CEO Jacob Aarup-Andersen last month said Russia had “stolen” its business,
   adding the group had cut all ties with its Russian business and refused to
   enter a deal with Russia’s government that would make its seizure of the
   assets look legitimate.

   “It is appalling that the efforts of the Russian state to justify their
   illegal takeover of our business in Russia has now evolved into targeting
   innocent employees,” Carlsberg said in a statement.

   The Vyborgsky district court on Wednesday ruled that Denis Sherstennikov
   and Anton Rogachevsky be remanded in custody on charges of large-scale
   fraud, accusing them and other unidentified people of having used their
   position at Baltika to transfer some intellectual property rights to
   Carlsberg as the Russian state assumed control of the brewer.

   The two men could not immediately be reached for comment. According to
   their Linkedin profiles, Sherstennikov is CEO of Baltika Breweries and
   Rogachevsky is vice-president, legal.

   “The allegations reported in Russian media are fake,” Carlsberg said.
   Large-scale fraud can carry a sentence of up to 10 years in prison.

   Police in St Petersburg and Baltika did not immediately respond to
   requests for comment.

   Baltika is suing Carlsberg in Russia, seeking to retain the right to use
   the Danish brewer’s trademarks. On Wednesday, a St Petersburg court
   granted Baltika’s request to hold proceedings behind closed doors, citing
   the need to protect trade secrets, Russian news agencies reported.

   Carlsberg has informed Baltika that the licence agreements enabling it to
   produce, market and sell all Carlsberg Group products, including
   international and regional brands, have been terminated.

   Executives have told Reuters that repercussions for local staff were among
   the top concerns for companies trying to negotiate an exit from Russia.

     * * Updated at 14.15 CET
   16 Nov 202313.08 CET

Ukraine has claimed initiative in Black Sea and forced Russian navy to pull
back, Zelenskiy says

   The president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, said on Thursday that Ukraine had
   seized the initiative from Russia in the Black Sea and forced Russia’s
   naval fleet to pull back in the eastern part of the sea.

   “For the first time in the world, it was in the Black Sea that a fleet of
   naval drones began to operate – a Ukrainian fleet,” Zelenskiy wrote on the
   Telegram.

   “I would also like to note that now – as one of the main results of our
   actions – Russia is unable to use the Black Sea as a springboard to
   destabilise other regions of the world.”

     * * Updated at 14.16 CET
   16 Nov 202312.50 CET

   The Russian financial watchdog Rosfinmonitoring has placed three lawyers
   for the jailed opposition politician Alexei Navalny on a list of
   “terrorists and extremists”, Reuters reports.

   The three lawyers, Vadim Kobzev, Igor Sergunin and Alexei Liptser, were
   placed in custody on 13 October. They are being investigated on suspicion
   of belonging to an “extremist group”.

     * * Updated at 13.13 CET
   16 Nov 202312.49 CET

   Finland will close four of the nine crossing points on its border with
   Russia to stem a flow of asylum seekers to the Nordic nation, the prime
   minister, Petteri Orpo, said on Thursday.

   “The government has today decided that Finland will close some eastern
   border crossing points. The eastern border for that part will close on the
   night between Friday and Saturday,” Orpo told a press conference.

     * * Updated at 13.14 CET
   16 Nov 202312.22 CET

   Here are the latest images coming across the wires from Ukraine:

   People shelter in an underground metro station during an air raid alarm in
   Kyiv on 15 November 2023.
   People shelter in an underground metro station during an air raid alarm in
   Kyiv on 15 November 2023. Photograph: Sergei Supinsky/AFP/Getty
   The Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, right, sits opposite the
   UK’s foreign secretary, David Cameron, during a meeting, in Kyiv, Ukraine.
   The Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, right, sits opposite the
   UK’s foreign secretary, David Cameron, during a meeting, in Kyiv, Ukraine.
   Photograph: AP
   Soldiers rest at the bunker where Ukrainian soldiers of the 72nd
   Mechanised Brigade take shelter.
   Soldiers rest at the bunker where Ukrainian soldiers of the 72nd
   Mechanised Brigade take shelter. Photograph: Anadolu Agency/Anadolu/Getty
     * * Updated at 12.27 CET
   16 Nov 202312.05 CET

EU plans fresh Russia sanctions including against son of Dmitry Medvedev

   The European Commission is proposing a 12th round of sanctions against
   Moscow, including restrictions on scores of individuals apparently
   including the son of the former president Dmitry Medvedev and a relative
   of Vladimir Putin’s.

   The former Russian president Dmitry Medvedev.
   The former Russian president Dmitry Medvedev. His son is among scores to
   be added to lists of sanctions. Photograph: Ekaterina Shtukina/AP

   Among the 47 individuals the commission wants added to existing sanctions
   lists are Putin’s cousin Anna Tsivileva, who chairs the “defenders of the
   fatherland” foundation which supports Russian soldiers fighting in
   Ukraine.

   Also on the extended list is Ilya Medvedev, whose name and date of birth
   match those of the former president’s only son. He is targeted for
   allegedly  orchestrating a disinformation and propaganda campaign in
   Ukraine.

   The inclusion of the relatives of senior officials, including the Putin
   family, will provoke anger in the Kremlin.

   Read more from Lisa O’Carroll and  Andrew Roth here:

   EU plans fresh Russia sanctions including against son of Dmitry Medvedev
   Read more
     * * Updated at 12.26 CET
   1 of 2NextOldestOldest
   Explore more on these topics
     * Ukraine
     * Ukraine war live
     * Nato
     * * * * * * Reuse this content

Most viewed

Most viewed

     * World
     * Europe
     * US
     * Americas
     * Asia
     * Australia
     * Middle East
     * Africa
     * Inequality
     * Global development
     * News
     * Opinion
     * Sport
     * Culture
     * Lifestyle
   Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every
   morning
   Sign up for our email
     * Help
     * Complaints &amp; corrections
     * SecureDrop
     * Work for us
     *  
     * Privacy policy
     * Cookie policy
     * Terms &amp; conditions
     * Contact us
     * All topics
     * All writers
     * Digital newspaper archive
     * Facebook
     * YouTube
     * Instagram
     * LinkedIn
     * Twitter
     * Newsletters
     * Advertise with us
     * Search UK jobs
   Back to top
   © 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All
   rights reserved. (dcr)
</text>
</page>§
<page='en_ukraine-9'>
<text>
   Link: canonical
   Link: amphtml
   Link: image_src

Skip links

   Skip to Content

Live

Navigation menu

     * NewsShow more news sections
          * Middle East
          * Africa
          * Asia
          * US &amp; Canada
          * Latin America
          * Europe
          * Asia Pacific
     * Israel-Gaza war
     * Features
     * Economy
     * Opinion
     * Video
     * MoreShow more sections
          * Ukraine war
          * Coronavirus
          * Climate Crisis
          * Investigations
          * Interactives
          * In Pictures
          * Science &amp; Technology
          * Sport
          * Podcasts

Live

   Click here to search
   News|Russia-Ukraine war

                Russia-Ukraine war: List of key events, day 599

   As the war enters its 599th day, these are the main developments.

   A Ukrainian serviceman attends an exercise in Chernihiv region, Ukraine,
   October 13
   A Ukrainian soldier attends a military exercise in Chernihiv region,
   Ukraine on October 13, 2023 [Gleb Garanich/Reuters]
   Published On 15 Oct 202315 Oct 2023

   Here is the situation on Sunday, October 15, 2023.

Fighting

     * Two people were killed in Russian attacks on the eastern Ukrainian
       town of Avdiivka, officials said, and two others were killed in
       shelling of Beryslav city in Ukraine’s Kherson region.
     * Russian forces continued their assault on Avdiivka, repeatedly
       shelling the town and launching ground operations in one of the few
       offensives by Russian forces in months.

     * Ukraine’s military said it had withstood 15 Russian ground attacks
       mounted in the vicinity of Avdiivka, Tonenke and Pervomaiske in the
       Donetsk region. The fierce Russian onslaught around Avdiivka has been
       described as a new offensive by Moscow.
     * Ukraine military spokesperson Oleksandr Stupun said Avdiivka was now a
       key objective for Russian forces to take “because it is the only
       chance to show some kind of victory. They have no other options.”
     * Almost 30 Ukrainian combat drones were shot down by Russian air
       defences over Russia’s Kursk and Belgorod regions. Two additional
       drones were shot down over the Black Sea near the southern Russian
       resort city of Sochi. There were no reports of casualties immediately.
     * Russia’s Black Sea Fleet conducted drills using rocket launchers off
       the port city of Sevastopol in the Russian-annexed Crimean Peninsula.

Regional security

     * The White House accused North Korea of delivering more than 1,000
       containers of military equipment and munitions to Russia for its
       ongoing war in Ukraine. Washington released images that it said showed
       the containers being loaded onto a Russian-flagged ship before being
       moved by train to southwestern Russia. North Korea has previously
       denied providing weaponry to Moscow.

Diplomacy

     * Russian President Vladimir Putin will meet China’s Xi Jinping at the
       Belt and Road Forum in Beijing on October 17-18. Putin’s visit to
       China is his first international trip since The Hague-based
       International Criminal Court (ICC) issued a warrant for his arrest in
       March for war crimes related to the deportation of children from
       Ukraine.

     * Armenian President Vahagn Khachaturyan ratified the ICC statutes, his
       office said.
     * Ukrainian human rights ombudsman Dmytro Lubinets said the Foreign
       Ministry in Kyiv sent a note of protest to Israel after Ukrainian
       citizens were unable to evacuate from war-torn Gaza. Lubinets said
       Ukraine could not understand why its citizens, and those of other
       countries, were not allowed to evacuate from besieged and bombarded
       Gaza. Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has been a vocal
       supporter of Israel in its war on Gaza.

Sanctions

     * World Athletics President Sebastian Coe said the International Olympic
       Committee (IOC) had made the “only decision left open” in suspending
       Russia’s national Olympic body for violating the territorial integrity
       of Ukraine. The IOC decision came after Russia’s Olympic Committee
       this week officially recognised regional sporting organisations from
       four Ukrainian territories annexed by Russia since its invasion of
       Ukraine began in 2022.
   Source: Al Jazeera and news agencies

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

     * AboutShow more
          * About Us
          * Code of Ethics
          * Terms and Conditions
          * EU/EEA Regulatory Notice
          * Privacy Policy
          * Cookie Policy
          * Cookie Preferences
          * Sitemap
          * Work for us
          * HR Quality
     * ConnectShow more
          * Contact Us
          * User Accounts Help
          * Advertise with us
          * Apps
          * Newsletters
          * Channel Finder
          * TV Schedule
          * Podcasts
          * Submit a Tip
     * Our ChannelsShow more
          * Al Jazeera Arabic
          * Al Jazeera English
          * Al Jazeera Investigative Unit
          * Al Jazeera Mubasher
          * Al Jazeera Documentary
          * Al Jazeera Balkans
          * AJ+
     * Our NetworkShow more
          * Al Jazeera Centre for Studies
          * Al Jazeera Media Institute
          * Learn Arabic
          * Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties &amp; Human Rights
          * Al Jazeera Forum
          * Al Jazeera Hotel Partners

   Follow Al Jazeera English:

     * * * * * Al Jazeera Media Network logo
   © 2023 Al Jazeera Media Network
</text>
</page>§
<page='en_ukraine-10'>
<text>
   Link: canonical
   [  ]_____________________
   [ Submit ]
   Responsible Statecraft
   [ Submit ]
   quincyinst.org
   Military Industrial Complex
   Washington Politics
   Media
   Global Crises
   Regions
   EuropeMiddle EastAfricaAsia-PacificLatin AmericaNorth America
   Donate
   [ Submit ]
   _____________________ [  ]
   Donate
   Military Industrial Complex
   Washington Politics
   Media
   Global Crises
   Regions
   EuropeMiddle EastAfricaAsia-PacificLatin AmericaNorth America
   Video
   About Us

Follow us on social

      Stay Responsible. Subscribe for Global Insights

   Invalid email _____________________ Enter your email Subscribe
   _____________________
   Is this the beginning of the end of the war in Ukraine?

            Is this the beginning of the end of the war in Ukraine?

   The Western media is suddenly teeming with signs of fatigue and even ....
   diplomacy?

   Europe
    1. regions europe
    2. ukraine war
   Ted Snider
   Nov 08, 2023

   “I don’t think that [the war] is a stalemate,” Ukrainian president
   Volodymyr Zelensky told NBC News’ Meet the Press on Sunday.

   “They thought they would checkmate us, but,” he insisted, “this didn’t
   happen.” According to recent interviews, his military leadership
   disagrees. His political inner circle thinks his insistence is delusional.

   Zelensky is facing pressure both from within Ukraine and from without.
   Growing pressure from within is coming from both the political and
   military leadership; growing pressure from without is coming from
   Ukraine’s key partners.

   The battle is largely being played out in the Western media. Most
   intimately, Zelensky has faced criticism from his political inner circle.
   TIME magazine reports that some of the president’s advisors have become
   worried that his “belief in Ukraine’s ultimate victory over Russia . . .
   “verg[es] on the messianic.” One of Zelensky’s “closest aides” said that
   Zelensky “deludes himself.” The aide complained, “We’re out of options.
   We’re not winning. But try telling him that.”

   Some Zelensky aides say his intransigence hampers Ukraine’s ability to
   adapt to the changed reality on the battlefield and worry that negotiating
   a settlement with Russia remains “taboo.”

   Domestic criticism is also coming from the top levels of the military.
   Zelensky is reportedly in conflict with his generals over the conduct of
   the counteroffensive and over his demands to defend Bakhmut and Avdiivka
   at any cost, which the military leadership sees as a strategic mistake
   that is already hurting Ukraine dearly in soldiers and equipment.

   A senior Ukrainian military officer said that orders from the president’s
   office are, at times, disconnected from the battlefield reality and
   defended some front-line commanders who have begun second-guessing and
   refusing “orders from the top.”

   Zelensky’s struggle with his generals intensified on November 3 when
   Zelensky fired General Viktor Khorenko, the commander of Ukraine’s special
   operations forces. The commander-in-chief of the Ukrainian army, General
   Valery Zaluzhny, did not request his dismissal. The New York Times reports
   that “It was unclear whether General Zaluzhny, the overall commander of
   Ukraine’s forces, knew in advance of the planned dismissal” and that
   “[t]he firing appeared to undercut General Zaluzhny’s authority.”

   The firing took U.S. military officers, who “described a close and
   effective working relationship with” Khorenko, by surprise. Khorenko’s
   special operations forces had had some success with long-range strikes and
   sabotage operations behind Russian lines. But the NYT reports that there
   had been tension over what the military had “perceived as politically
   guided decisions on strategy” that had been ineffective and costly.

   Zelensky’s tensions with his generals reached a peak with Zaluzhny’s
   November 1 interview with The Economist. He asserted that the war had
   reached a “stalemate.” He conceded that “There will most likely be no deep
   and beautiful breakthrough.”

   What’s worse is that Zaluzhny implied that the stalemate would evolve into
   defeat for Ukraine. A stalemate entails a long war of attrition. In a
   companion essay published simultaneously by The Economist, he explained
   that a long war “as a rule, in most cases, is beneficial to one of the
   parties to the conflict. In our particular case, it is the russian [sic]
   federation, as it gives it the opportunity to reconstitute and build up
   its military power.”

   Zaluzhny said that in a prolonged war, Ukraine will run out of the
   “required volume” of missiles and ammunition while Russia, despite
   sanctions, is increasing its production capabilities. And even if it
   didn’t run out of weapons, he added, it will run out of men: a war of
   attrition “leads to the lack of Ukraine's ability to achieve superiority
   over the enemy in reserves by increasing their number.” A close Zelensky
   aide told TIME that, even if the United States gave Ukraine all the
   weapons it needed, Kyiv doesn’t “have the men to use them.”

   Zelensky’s office censured Zaluzhny, saying it “eases the work” of Russia
   and stirs “panic” among Ukraine’s Western partners. The New York Times
   calls the censure “a striking public rebuke that signaled an emerging rift
   between the military and civilian leadership.”

   In addition to the pressure coming from within Zelensky’s inner political
   and military circle, diplomatic pressure is also coming from Zelensky’s
   international partners.

   A November 3 NBC News article reported that “U.S. and European officials
   have begun quietly talking to the Ukrainian government about what possible
   peace negotiations with Russia might entail to end the war.” The article
   went on to say, citing one current and one former senior U.S. official
   familiar with the discussions, that “the conversations have included very
   broad outlines of what Ukraine might need to give up to reach a deal.”

   The quiet talks suggest agreement by the U.S. and its European allies with
   Zaluzhny that Ukraine may not achieve its goals on the battlefield, that
   the realization of their aspirations may continue to dim with prolonged
   battle, and that some concessions may need to be made.

   There is a remarkable convergence in the language used by the U.S. and
   European officials and the language used by Zaluzhny and Zelensky’s aides.
   NBC reports that the conversations “began amid concerns among U.S. and
   European officials that the war has reached a stalemate.” NBC reports
   that, like Zaluzhny, “[s]ome U.S. military officials have privately begun
   using the term ‘stalemate’ to describe the current battle in Ukraine.”

   Like Zaluzhny and Zelensky’s aides, “Biden administration officials also
   are worried that Ukraine is running out of forces.” According to “people
   familiar with the matter,” NBC reported, “President Joe Biden has been
   intensely focused on Ukraine’s depleting military forces.” “Manpower,” one
   of those sources is quoted as saying, “is at the top of the
   administration’s concerns right now.”

   Echoing the “close Zelensky aide” quoted in TIME, the same source said,
   “The U.S. and its allies can provide Ukraine with weaponry, but if they
   don’t have competent forces to use them it doesn’t do a lot of good.”

   These concerns, NBC reported, have led U.S. officials to concede privately
   that “Ukraine likely only has until the end of the year or shortly
   thereafter before more urgent discussions about peace negotiations should
   begin.”

   That leaves only a couple of months. With the battlefield turning against
   Ukraine despite Zelensky’s intransigent “belief in Ukraine’s ultimate
   victory over Russia,” the pressure targeted at Zelensky seems to be
   building, from both within and without,, to turn to the diplomatic front
   and face the beginning of the end of the war.

   From Your Site Articles
     * Diplomacy Watch: Washington may deny it, but looks like someone wants
       to talk to Russia ›
     * Diplomacy Watch: Ukraine and Russia are (quietly) talking ›
   Related Articles Around the Web
     * Ukraine war latest: Putin 'ready for talks' on post-conflict
       settlement ... ›
     * Former U.S. officials have held secret Ukraine talks with Russians ›

   Dear RS readers: It has been an extraordinary year and our editing team
   has been working overtime to make sure that we are covering the current
   conflicts with quality, fresh analysis that doesn’t cleave to the
   mainstream orthodoxy or take official Washington and the commentariat at
   face value. Our staff reporters, experts, and outside writers offer
   top-notch, independent work, daily. Please consider making a tax-exempt,
   year-end contribution to Responsible Statecraftso that we can continue
   this quality coverage — which you will find nowhere else — into 2024.
   Happy Holidays!

   Ted Snider
   Ted Snider is a regular columnist on U.S. foreign policy and history at
   Antiwar.com and The Libertarian Institute. He is also a frequent
   contributor to Responsible Statecraft and other outlets.

   (shutterstock/Alonafoto)

   Europe
   Did Israel kill Iranian commander to provoke a wider war?

   Senior adviser for Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, Sayyed Razi
   Mousavi, sits next to late Iranian Major-General Qasem Soleimani in an
   unknown location, in this handout image obtained on December 25, 2023.
   Tasnim News/WANA (West Asia News Agency)/Handout via REUTERS

Did Israel kill Iranian commander to provoke a wider war?

   Trita Parsi
   December 26, 2023
   QiOSK

   Iran’s top commander in Syria, Seyed Razi Mousavi, was assassinated Sunday
   by an Israeli airstrike in a Damascus neighborhood, according to Iran’s
   official news agency IRNA and Britain-based opposition war monitor the
   Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.

   This has led Tehran to call for reprisals, ratcheting up fears that this
   might be the match that ignites a wider Middle East war.

   Syria state news did not issue a statement, and Israel has declined
   comment.

   Israel either killed Mousavi as a warning to Iran — given Tehran’s support
   for the Houthis’ attacks on ships in the Red Sea, or as a provocation to
   beget an Iranian response that would give Israel the pretext to enlarge
   the war, or as a preparatory move to enlarge the war regardless of Iran’s
   response. Either one points to trouble.

   The action preceded U.S. airstrikes in Northern Iraq that killed a number
   of Shia militants linked to Kataib Hezbollah, a Shia armed group and its
   affiliates, presumed to be backed by Iran. The strikes, ordered by Biden,
   were in retaliation for an attack on U.S. troops there that led to the
   injuries of three American service members, including one in critical
   condition, according to the Pentagon.

   It is very likely that Israel is behind the assassination of Mousavi since
   it is the only power with both a motive and capacity to pull off such a
   killing — not to mention a long history of assassinating Iranian
   operatives. The U.S. has the capacity but not necessarily the motive. The
   analysis below rests on the rather safe assumption that Mousavi was
   assassinated by Israel.

   U.S. intelligence believes that Iran has been actively involved in the
   Houthi movement’s targeting of ships in the Red Sea, which has effectively
   closed the Bab el-Mandeb Strait for Israel and cost the Israeli economy
   billions of dollars. The Houthis insist they will continue the attacks —
   despite threats of retaliation from the US — until Israel ceases its
   bombardment of Gaza.

   Israel of course refuses, and Biden is loath to press Israel for a
   ceasefire. From Israel’s perspective, Iran is not paying a price for its
   alleged role in the Red Sea attacks. The assassination may, as a result,
   be a warning to Iran that Israel has the capacity and willingness to exact
   a price from Iran — even in areas where the Iranians may have presumed
   that they are safe.

   In a second scenario, the assassination may be a deliberate provocation to
   engender an Iranian response that would give Israel the pretext to enlarge
   the war. While the Biden administration has given Israel the green light
   to bomb Gaza to smithereens, Biden opposes an expansion of the war since
   that very likely could drag the U.S. into it.

   The debate inside the Israeli government is increasingly leaning toward
   expanding the war — they have already mobilized more than 300,000 troops
   and there is a growing belief in Israel that it simply is intolerable for
   Israel to live next to Hezbollah.

   Israel thought it could manage the threat from Hamas — and they couldn’t.
   Even though it wasn’t Hezbollah that attacked Israel on Oct. 7, the
   Israeli argument is that next time it might be Hezbollah, and as a result,
   Israel has no choice but to expand the war. But unless there is an attack
   from Iran or Hezbollah itself, the U.S. may continue to oppose such a
   move.

   But the assassination of Mousavi may cause Iran to retaliate against
   Israel via Hezbollah, the reasoning goes, and Israel can then use
   Hezbollah’s action as a pretext to not only expand the war to Lebanon —
   but also force the U.S. to go along with it.

   There is also a third explanation. According to Amwaj Media, Mousavi was
   in charge of facilitating the entry of Iran-led forces and arms shipments
   to Syria as well as Lebanon’s Hezbollah movement. If Israel intends to
   attack Lebanon, taking out Mousavi could be a logical first step to
   disrupt the arming of Hezbollah as well as its supply lines. As such, the
   assassination may be a preparatory move to enlarge the war regardless of
   Iran’s response to the killing of Mousavi.

   All of these scenarios point to one undeniable reality: As long as Biden
   refuses to pressure Israel to accept a ceasefire in Gaza, tensions in the
   region will continue to rise and the Middle East will gravitate towards a
   regional war that very likely will engulf the U.S. as well. Biden may
   think that he can control these events and allow Israel to slaughter the
   people in Gaza while keeping a lid on the escalation risk.

   He is likely wrong — and the American people may soon find themselves in
   yet another unnecessary war in the Middle East because of Biden’s
   strategic incompetence.

   keep readingShow less
   ||
   Diplomacy Watch: A peace summit without Russia
   Diplomacy Watch: Zelensky goes on the road

Diplomacy Watch: Zelensky says discussion of negotiations ‘not relevant’

   Blaise Malley
   December 22, 2023
   QiOSK

   During a major end-of-year press conference this week, Ukrainian President
   Volodymyr Zelensky said that talking about negotiations with Russia was
   “not relevant” at this time because Moscow has not yet shown any interest
   in ending the war.

   Zelensky said that Ukraine would participate in a fourth round of talks
   with international security officials to discuss Kyiv’s ten-point peace
   plan at the World Economic Forum in Davos early next year.

   “We will work to ensure that this meeting gathers representatives of all
   continents, including the Global South. The last five points of the Peace
   Formula will be worked out at this meeting,” Zelensky said during the news
   conference, held on Tuesday in Kyiv. “The first five points were
   considered by advisers at the previous meeting in Malta at the end of
   October.”

   That meeting in Malta followed previous gatherings in Denmark and Saudi
   Arabia aimed at firming up support for Ukraine’s vision of a settlement
   from the international community. Representatives from many major nations
   have taken part, though Russia has yet to be invited to the meetings.

   “According to Zelensky, after the fourth round Kyiv will work on
   organizing the first inaugural summit at the level of state leaders – the
   Global Peace Summit,” reported the Kyiv Post. “During the event, an
   agreement between the countries on the fundamental provisions, which will
   be embodied in the corresponding document, will be developed. After the
   document is adopted by all states, it can be transferred to the
   representatives of the Russian Federation.”

   “If Russia is ready to accept that document, it will indicate that the
   issue of negotiations is relevant. Today it is not relevant. I don't see
   any request from Russia, I don't see it in their actions. I only see
   arrogance and murder in their rhetoric," Zelensky said.

   During his remarks, the Ukrainian leader made a number of other notable
   remarks, including rejecting the assessment that his troops were losing
   the war, instead maintaining that Moscow had not accomplished any of its
   goals on the battlefield in 2023.

   Zelensky struck an optimistic tone, insisting that the slow-moving aid
   packages from the United States and the European Union would eventually
   come through. ““We are working very hard on it,” he said regarding aid
   from Washington. “I am confident that the United States will not betray us
   and that everything we have agreed on with the U.S. will be fulfilled.”

   The Ukrainian president also said that military advisors told him that
   Kyiv would need to mobilize approximately another 500,000 troops next year
   if it wants to successfully repel Russia’s invasion. Zelensky, however,
   did not commit to the mobilization, saying that the half a million figure
   was a “serious number” and that he would need to hear more arguments in
   favor of the move before making a decision.

   As Connor Echols noted in last week’s edition of Diplomacy Watch, Russian
   President Vladimir Putin held his own major press conference earlier this
   month, in which he “played down his military’s middling performance and
   alleged that Western ‘freebies’ for Ukraine ‘are gradually running out.’”

   This week, Putin claimed that he would be open to negotiations with Kyiv
   and its Western supporters, but offered no details and said that Moscow
   “will not give up what is ours."

   In other diplomatic news related to the war in Ukraine:

   — President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said that Turkey would be prepared to
   ratify Sweden’s bid for membership in NATO once the U.S. Congress agrees
   to the sale of F-16 fighter jets to Ankara. “Positive developments from
   the United States regarding the F-16 issue and Canada keeping its promises
   will accelerate our parliament’s positive view on [Sweden’s membership,]”
   Erdogan said. “All of these are linked.” Turkey has held up Sweden’s bid
   to join NATO for over a year.

   —The U.S. Congress officially went home for the year this week without
   approving the emergency supplemental package that includes $61 billion in
   aid for Kyiv. The chances that the Senate would reach a compromise on the
   spending bill appeared slim in recent weeks, and despite some last-minute
   maneuvering, leadership eventually decided to punt on the legislation
   until next year. Punchbowl News published a timeline on Wednesday
   detailing how Washington — and the Republican Party in particular — has
   steadily grown skeptical on funding Ukraine in the nearly two years since
   Russia’s invasion.

   —The Associated Pressreports that the mood among Ukrainian forces has
   become increasingly gloomy this winter as they revert toward a more
   defensive position and as the lack of both manpower and firepower become
   more evident. “Despite a disappointing counteroffensive this summer and
   signs of wavering financial support from allies, Ukrainian soldiers say
   they remain fiercely determined to win,” the report reads. “But as winter
   approaches, they worry that Russia is better equipped for battle and are
   frustrated about being on the defensive again in a grueling war. Some
   doubt the judgment of their leaders.”

   U.S. State Department news:

   During a press briefing on Tuesday, State Department spokesperson Matthew
   Miller was asked if the administration had any “outside of the box” plans
   for funding Ukraine if Congress did not approve the aid package.

   “There is no magic pot of funding that we have available to draw on if
   Congress doesn’t pass this bill. That’s not how government funding works.
   There is a – there are funding streams that we can draw on,” he said. “We
   have used those funding streams. We have nearly exhausted them, and over
   the next few weeks, we’ll fully exhaust them, and that’s why we need
   Congress to act.”

   keep readingShow less
   Chill, Xi Jinping did not announce an invasion of Taiwan

   Chinese President Xi Jinping (Shutterstock/Alexander Khitrov) and
   President Joe Biden (Luca Perra/Shutterstock)

Chill, Xi Jinping did not announce an invasion of Taiwan

   Branko Marcetic
   December 21, 2023
   Asia-Pacific

   As U.S.-China tensions have risen the past few years, several U.S. and
   Taiwanese officials have made alarming warnings that Beijing will launch
   an invasion of the island by 2027 or as early as 2025, potentially
   triggering a disastrous war between the two powers.

   So NBC News’ report Wednesday filling in some of the details of the
   November meeting between President Joe Biden and Xi Jinping should have
   been a cause for hope that this conflict could be avoided. According to
   the report, Xi told Biden that Beijing plans to reunify China and Taiwan
   and that it prefers to do so peacefully — the position China has held for
   decades, and which has helped lay the basis for peaceful relations between
   the two states.

   Maybe more importantly, Xi assured the U.S. president that predictions of
   an impending invasion of Taiwan “were wrong because he has not set a time
   frame,” NBC News reported.

   In other words, Xi reiterated that he remained committed to long-standing
   Chinese policy that had underwritten decades of peace and regional
   stability, and that contrary to some headline-grabbing speculation, there
   were no plans to change that anytime soon. It should have inspired a
   collective sigh of relief from all those concerned about the security of
   Taiwan, let alone anyone worried about a direct U.S.-China war.

   But tell that to the hawks who dominate U.S. discourse on China, who
   quickly seized on the report to irresponsibly make the exact opposite
   claim: That Xi’s statement was tantamount to a declaration of war.

   Sen. Lindsey Graham immediately called the report “beyond unnerving,” and
   said it would inspire him to link up with senators to ply Taiwan with more
   military aid and weapons and to “draft pre-invasion sanctions from hell”
   against China — both actions that Beijing could view as provocative. GOP
   presidential candidate Nikki Haley charged that according to the report,
   “Xi Jinping told Joe Biden that China will take Taiwan” and that as a
   result, the United States needs “a president who will stand up to our
   enemies,” rather than treat such an announcement as “business as usual,”
   as Biden allegedly had.

   Other lawmakers had similar reactions. “Xi Jinping wants to take Taiwan.
   The United States must project strength,” wrote Rep. Mark Green, who
   chairs the House Committee on Homeland Security and sits on the House
   Foreign Affairs Committee. “Xi Jinping feels emboldened enough by
   President Biden’s weakness to tell him to his face that Communist China
   believes that it’s only a matter of time before they take Taiwan,” wrote
   Sen. Katie Boyd Britt, ranking member of the Senate Homeland Security
   Committee. “It’s time to replace appeasement with deterrence.”

   Other China hawks, like former Donald Trump advisor Elbridge Colby, former
   Josh Hawley advisor and current Heritage Foundation policy advisor Alex
   Velez-Green, journalist Bari Weiss, and former National
   Counterintelligence and Security Center Director William Evanina, spun the
   story in a similar fashion. The latter painted a particularly alarmist
   picture, warning that “China will first paralyze the U.S. with cyber
   attacks on critical infrastructure resulting in panic and little appetite
   to assist Taiwan.”

   Readers glancing at some of the headlines of the stories re-reporting the
   NBC news would come away with the same kind of impression — that Xi had
   effectively told Biden that a Chinese invasion of Taiwan was inevitable in
   a major show of disrespect:

     * “Xi warned Biden he plans to take Taiwan — by any means necessary”
       (New York Post)
     * “Xi straight-up told Biden that China is going to take over Taiwan:
       report” (Business Insider)
     * “China Will Take Taiwan, Xi Warned Biden During Meeting” (Washington
       Free Beacon)
     * “Xi Told Biden To His Face That Beijing Will Reunify Taiwan With
       China: REPORT” (Daily Caller)
     * “Xi warned Biden during summit that Beijing will reunify Taiwan with
       China” (MSNBC News)

   One Bloomberg News anchor, meanwhile, called it a “nightmare scenario” and
   a “bombshell story.”

   This confusion about the meaning of Xi’s reported comments appeared to
   extend to the very reporters who broke the story. The NBC report frames
   the remarks as part of a trend of “saber-rattling” by the Chinese
   president on Taiwan, while one of the reporters on the byline, Kristen
   Welker, said in a TV appearance that the statement “lands differently when
   [Xi] is speaking to a president and against the background of these
   tensions” and when “the whole purpose of this meeting was to bring down
   the temperature.”

   Yet if anything, Xi’s words should have served that very purpose of
   lowering tensions, by denying U.S. suspicions of a planned Chinese
   invasion in the next few years.

   It’s a measure of the anti-China climate in Washington that a story about
   the Chinese president effectively tamping down recent alarming headlines
   in the United States about impending war was widely painted by
   commentators and politicians as the exact opposite — and used to justify
   still more policies of deterrence instead of diplomacy.

   keep readingShow less

Israel-Gaza Crisis

   Will the human rights movement survive the Gaza war?
   Middle East

Will the human rights movement survive the Gaza war?

   Connor Echols
   December 21, 2023
   In Gaza, the next generation of radicalization begins
   Middle East

In Gaza, the next generation of radicalization begins

   Branko Marcetic
   December 20, 2023
   History shows Israel may never win a 'war of occupation'
   Middle East

History shows Israel may never win a 'war of occupation'

   Marshall Poe
   December 19, 2023
   Where did Hamas come from and what does it want?
   Middle East

Where did Hamas come from and what does it want?

   Emile Nakhleh
   December 18, 2023
   Are Israel and the United States on a collision course?
   Middle East

Are Israel and the United States on a collision course?

   Daniel Brumberg
   December 16, 2023
   US lawmaker: Backing Israel is the 'path of least resistance'
   Washington Politics

US lawmaker: Backing Israel is the 'path of least resistance'

   Eli Clifton
   December 15, 2023

Newsletter

   By subscribing to our recent updates, you will gain access to a wealth of
   valuable information, including breaking news, expert analysis, and
   thought-provoking articles. Whether you are interested in science,
   technology, business, health, or any other field, our updates will keep
   you informed and engaged.

   Invalid email _____________________ Enter your email Subscribe
   _____________________

Latest

   Biden
   Washington Politics

Biden's 2023 foreign policy was a bust

   Daniel Larison
   December 26, 2023
   Is carnage in Gaza bringing Iran and Saudi Arabia closer?
   Middle East

Is carnage in Gaza bringing Iran and Saudi Arabia closer?

   Giorgio Cafiero
   December 26, 2023
   Attacks on Red Sea shipping pay dividends for Yemen’s Houthis
   Middle East

Attacks on Red Sea shipping pay dividends for Yemen’s Houthis

   Michael Horton
   December 26, 2023
   An anti-war pope confronts a world in turmoil
   Global Crises

An anti-war pope confronts a world in turmoil

   Connor Echols
   December 25, 2023
   Houthi rivals in Yemen want to exploit Red Sea rift
   Middle East

Houthi rivals in Yemen want to exploit Red Sea rift

   Neil Partrick
   December 23, 2023
   Yes Micronesia, there is a Santa Claus. Sort of.
   Asia-Pacific

Yes Micronesia, there is a Santa Claus. Sort of.

   Kenneth Gofigan Kuper
   Robert Underwood
   Leland Bettis
   December 22, 2023
   About UsPrivacy PolicyPitchRS@quincyinst.org

   ©2023 Quincy Institute for Responsible Statecraft, Inc. All Rights
   Reserved.

      Get stories worth sharing delivered to your inbox

   Invalid email _____________________ Enter your email Signup
   _____________________

Follow

   ©2023 Quincy Institute for Responsible Statecraft, Inc. All Rights
   Reserved.
</text>
</page>§
<page='en_ukraine-11'>
<text>
   Link: canonical
   Link: amphtml
   Link: alternate x-default
   Link: alternate en-gb
   Link: alternate en
   BBC Homepage
     * Skip to content
     * Accessibility Help
     * Your account
     * Home
     * News
     * Sport
     * Earth
     * Reel
     * Worklife
     * Travel
     * More menu
   More menu
   Search BBC
     * Home
     * News
     * Sport
     * Earth
     * Reel
     * Worklife
     * Travel
     * Culture
     * Future
     * Music
     * TV
     * Weather
     * Sounds
   Close menu
   BBC News
   Menu
     * Home
     * Israel-Gaza war
     * War in Ukraine
     * Climate
     * Video
     * World
     * UK
     * Business
     * Tech
     * Science
   More
     * Entertainment &amp; Arts
     * Health
     * World News TV
     * In Pictures
     * BBC Verify
     * Newsbeat
     * World
     * Africa
     * Asia
     * Australia
     * Europe
     * Latin America
     * Middle East
     * US &amp; Canada

          Ukraine war: The Russians fighting for a Ukrainian passport

     * Published
       20 November
   Share
   close panel
   Share page
   Copy link
   About sharing
   Related Topics
     * War in Ukraine
   Galina with her sewing machine and Russian passport
   Image caption,
   As a legal Russian, Galina says she can't get a job and fears her bank
   account could be blocked
   By James Waterhouse
   BBC Ukraine Correspondent

   Galina was born in Ukraine. She speaks Ukrainian, her husband is serving
   in the Ukrainian army, and she lives in a village south of the central
   Ukrainian city of Vinnytsia.

   But Galina is legally Russian. As a child, she moved there, where she then
   became a citizen.

   It means she - like thousands of other Russians in Ukraine - is now in a
   legal limbo.

   "When you show your documents, people think you're something strange," she
   tells me in her kitchen, where she spends her time stitching T-shirts for
   wounded Ukrainian soldiers.

   Ukraine's state migration service insists that all foreigners in Ukraine
   have equal rights as each other, and no one nationality is discriminated
   against.

   But some allege this isn't the case. Lawyers working with Russians in
   Ukraine for instance told the BBC their clients face having their accounts
   frozen.

   After Russia launched its full-scale invasion, Ukraine's National Bank
   restricted financial services for all Russian and Belarusian citizens,
   although it says those with a residence permit are not affected.

   Galina disagrees. She says that because of her passport, she can't get a
   job, and fears her bank account could be blocked.

   She is seven months pregnant but because she's not legally Ukrainian, she
   can't access free state health services.

   Galina also worries she won't be able to register her child's birth: after
   she married her Ukrainian husband Maksym in a church, she says that
   officials refused to recognise the union because of her unsettled status.

   "They said, 'Come back when you have a passport'," explains Galina. "They
   can't understand who I am." Under Ukrainian law it's banned to have joint
   citizenship, although some do.

   Galina and Maksym marryingImage source, Courtesy of Galina
   Image caption,
   Makysm and Galina had a church wedding but it is not legally recognised
   because of Galina's unsettled status

   She started applying to become a Ukrainian citizen but was unable to
   complete the process because of Russia's full-scale invasion. Now Galina's
   temporary Ukrainian passport has expired, she says she feels like a
   "hostage of Russia".

   "Changing passports was difficult even before the war - now it's
   impossible," she says.

   On Povitroflotskyi Avenue in central Kyiv sits a three-storey white
   building with an overgrown garden. It's surrounded by a tall, barbed wire
   fence and the shutters are firmly down.

   They have been since 23 February last year when staff at the Russian
   Embassy evacuated for "safety reasons". A day later Moscow launched its
   full-scale invasion, and what was left of the diplomatic relations between
   Kyiv and Moscow disintegrated.

   It means thousands of people in Ukraine, like Galina, are living in
   uncertainty.

   Currently there are more than 150,000 Russians with permanent residency
   permits in Ukraine. Around 17,000 have temporary ones.

   For them to successfully apply for a Ukrainian passport or citizenship,
   they first need to physically give up their Russian citizenship. Moscow
   made that process complicated: to do so, they'd have to surrender their
   papers in either a Russian consulate abroad, or Russia itself.

   There are no guarantees Galina wouldn't be arrested in the process, or end
   up stranded outside Ukraine.

   Russian embassy in KyivImage source, Getty Images
   Image caption,
   The Russian embassy in Ukraine has been closed since before the full-scale
   invasion

   As Galina's children arrive back from school, you can see the anguish in
   her eyes. An anxiety she attempts to hide from her children.

   But she refuses to hold Ukraine accountable, or to claim discrimination.

   She pins all her blame on Russia for her situation, as well as her Russian
   family members who've chosen to support their country in its so-called
   "special military operation".

   "How can I support a robber, a rapist and a murderer who breaks into my
   home?" she says.

   After Galina finishes a video call with her husband Maksym, I ask her what
   would happen to her family if he was killed on the front line.

   She puts her hand over her mouth. A thought she's tried to put to the back
   of her mind, suddenly at the forefront.

   "It's very scary," she says. "Even if he gets wounded, I wouldn't be able
   to visit him in hospital, because we're not technically married."

   "To the rest of the world we're strangers."

'I chose Ukraine'

   When Anastasia Leonova, a Russian, moved from Moscow to Kyiv in 2015, her
   friends warned her she "wouldn't be allowed to speak Russian" and that
   "there were only Nazis there".

   It was a Russian propaganda narrative which annoyed her, as she had uncles
   and cousins living in Ukraine.

   Anastasia
   Image caption,
   Anastasia is a Russian now serving as a medic in the Ukrainian army

   Anastasia's relocation followed her online criticism of Russia's 2014
   annexation of Crimea and backing of separatist militants, which led to her
   losing her job in Russia as well as receiving death threats.

   On 24 February last year, as Russian troops moved towards Kyiv, Anastasia
   says she only had one thought in her mind - to stay and fight.

   "My blood is part Ukrainian," she says. "I was born as a part of Ukraine."

   "I chose Ukraine as my homeland; I could not betray this choice".

   She volunteered to be a combat medic with Ukrainian forces, as they
   defended the capital against troops from her own country.

   I ask whether she's treated differently for being Russian.

   "Nobody was asking for my passport when I was working," she says with a
   smile.

   "For sure, my colleagues know."

   Russian passports
   Image caption,
   Russians wanting to give up their passports have to physically surrender
   them at an embassy or consulate

   She admits it was initially very difficult to treat wounded Russians
   because of what they were doing.

   But later, she says, she realised that treating them was "the way to get
   our people back, the Ukrainians who were captured by the Russians".

   "Since I came here from my first day, I've been dreaming of having a
   Ukrainian passport," she says.

   "This is what I'm fighting for. Not only for freedom, but for my
   passport."

   Only a few hundred Russians have been granted Ukrainian citizenship in the
   18 months since the full-scale invasion, down from 1,700 the year before.

   Unlike Galina, Anastasia feels she's closer to her dream. Serving the army
   has likely helped her cause.

   Military service, marriage to a Ukrainian and length of residency are all
   considered in citizenship applications. As the authorities point out,
   having the legal right to stay in Ukraine requires more than just a change
   in identity.

   This war has put thousands of Russians like Galina and Anastasia in a
   difficult position within Ukraine.

   The head of Ukraine's State Migration Service, Natalia Naumenko, told us
   no nationality is discriminated against when it comes to gaining
   citizenship.

   A new law is being drafted which would simplify citizenship and residency
   applications for those fighting for Ukraine.

   But Ms Naumenko points out that thanks to the full-scale invasion, the
   process certainly won't be made easier for Russians.

   "We have already simplified it for those who are fighting for Ukraine,"
   she says.

   "Why does Ukraine have to simplify it for all Russians in general?"

   Additional reporting by Insaf Abbas, Hanna Chornous, Anastasia Levchenko
   and Hanna Tsyba

Related Topics

     * War in Ukraine
     * Russia
     * Citizenship
     * Ukraine

More on this story

     * Ukrainian men flee the draft in their thousands

          * Published
            17 November
       Erik
     * 'Denied medicine until they take a Russian passport'

          * Published
            16 November
       A woman holds her new Russian passport in Kherson, 2022
     * Russia goes back to prisons to feed its war machine

          * Published
            26 October
       A recruitment ad in Moscow

Top Stories

     * Russia confirms damage to warship in Black Sea

          * Published
            1 hour ago
     * UN says no let-up in Israeli air strikes in Gaza

          * Published
            13 hours ago
     * Russia captures key town near Donetsk

          * Published
            53 minutes ago

Features

     * Letters of forbidden love revealed in Spanish archive

       Envelopes and letters
     * Amazon drought: 'We've never seen anything like this'

       Oliveira Tikuna sitting in a canoe
     * India's power-hitting global women's cricket star

       : Harmanpreet Kaur of India poses for a portrait prior to the ICC
       Women's T20 World Cup South Africa 2023 on February 05, 2023 in
       Stellenbosch, South Africa. (Photo by Jan Kruger-ICC/ICC via Getty
       Images)
     * * 'I went into 'dad mode' after my wife was killed'

       Emma and Lee Lovell
     * 15 celebrity flops and fails of 2023

       Harrison Ford and Phoebe Waller-Bridge attend the "Indiana Jones And
       The Dial Of Destiny" photocall at the 76th annual Cannes film festival
       at Palais des Festivals on May 19, 2023 in Cannes, France
     * Why has it taken 15 years for UK to have a black Premier League ref?

       Sam Allison will become the first black referee of a Premier League
       match in 15 years when he takes charge of Sheffield United v Luton
       Town
     * The Ukrainian frontline city Russia could seize again

       Svitlana
     * In pictures: Christmas around the world

       A child kisses the feet of a statue depicting the infant Jesus Christ
       after offering prayers during Christmas Holy Mass, at Santhome
       Cathedral Basilica, in Chennai, India, 25 December 2023.
     * Nigeria’s viral ballet boy dances into elite school

       Anthony Madu in a dance studio at Elmhurst Ballet School

Elsewhere on the BBC

     * Did drinking tea save British lives?

       drinking tea
     * The 'vibecession' driving holiday mass layoffs

       Spotify
     * Why olive oil prices are soaring

       bottle

Most Read

    1. 1
       Russia confirms damage to warship in Black Sea
    2. 2
       Russia captures key town near Donetsk
    3. 3
       15 celebrity flops and fails of 2023
    4. 4
       Unaccompanied boy, 6, put on wrong US flight
    5. 5
       Hanif Kureishi: I've become a reluctant dictator
    6. 6
       Chinese chess champion suspended for bad behaviour
    7. 7
       Man held in France after mother and children killed
    8. 8
       'I went into 'dad mode' after my wife was killed'
    9. 9
       Daihatsu pauses production over safety scandal
   10. 10
       Girl, 7, with brain tumour meets Queen for tea

BBC News Services

     * On your mobile
     * On smart speakers
     * Get news alerts
     * Contact BBC News
     * Home
     * News
     * Sport
     * Earth
     * Reel
     * Worklife
     * Travel
     * Culture
     * Future
     * Music
     * TV
     * Weather
     * Sounds
     * Terms of Use
     * About the BBC
     * Privacy Policy
     * Cookies
     * Accessibility Help
     * Parental Guidance
     * Contact the BBC
     * Get Personalised Newsletters
     * Why you can trust the BBC
     * Advertise with us

   © 2023 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.
   Read about our approach to external linking.
</text>
</page>§
<page='en_ukraine-12'>
<text>
   Link: canonical
   Link: shortlink
     * Regions
          * Europe
          * Middle East
          * Russia
          * East Asia
          * Americas
          * South Asia
          * Eastern Europe
          * Southeast Asia
          * Central Asia
          * Africa
     * Topics
          * Diplomacy
          * BRICS
          * International Law
          * New Social Compact
          * Green Planet
          * Religion
          * Urban Development
          * African Renaissance
          * Video &amp; Podcasts
     * Business
          * Economy
          * Energy
          * Science &amp; Technology
          * Reports
          * Tourism
     * Security
          * Defense
          * Terrorism
          * Intelligence
     * News
          * World News
          * Finance
          * Energy News
          * Tech News
          * Environment
          * Health &amp; Wellness
     * Fine Living
          * Arts &amp; Culture
          * Travel &amp; Leisure
          * Hotels &amp; Resorts
          * Style
     * More
          * Publications
          * About MD
          * Write for Us
          * Contact Us
   Search _____________________
   Modern DiplomacyModern DiplomacyMODERN DIPLOMACYALL VIEWS | ALL VOICES
   _____________________ Search
   Search
   Modern DiplomacyModern DiplomacyMODERN DIPLOMACYALL VIEWS | ALL VOICES
   My account
   Get into your account.
   Login
   Subscribe
     * Regions
          * Europe
          * Middle East
          * Russia
          * East Asia
          * Americas
          * South Asia
          * Eastern Europe
          * Southeast Asia
          * Central Asia
          * Africa
     * Topics
          * Diplomacy
          * BRICS
          * International Law
          * New Social Compact
          * Green Planet
          * Religion
          * Urban Development
          * African Renaissance
          * Video &amp; Podcasts
     * Business
          * Economy
          * Energy
          * Science &amp; Technology
          * Reports
          * Tourism
     * Security
          * Defense
          * Terrorism
          * Intelligence
     * News
          * World News
          * Finance
          * Energy News
          * Tech News
          * Environment
          * Health &amp; Wellness
     * Fine Living
          * Arts &amp; Culture
          * Travel &amp; Leisure
          * Hotels &amp; Resorts
          * Style
     * More
          * Publications
          * About MD
          * Write for Us
          * Contact Us
   Eastern Europe

                   The Long Road to Peace in War-Torn Ukraine

   The beginning of the conflict in Ukraine in early 2022 represents a
   notable intensification of longstanding tensions that have persisted since
   2014.

   Saba KiranSaba Kiran
   By Saba Kiran
   By Saba Kiran
   November 21, 2023
   In Kramatorsk, rescues dismantle rubble of a residential building
   destroyed by Russian missile on February 1, 2023. By Serhii Korovainyi via
   war.ukraine.ua

   Share

   Facebook
   Twitter
   WhatsApp
   Linkedin
   ReddIt
   Telegram

   The beginning of the conflict in Ukraine in early 2022 represents a
   notable intensification of longstanding tensions that have persisted since
   2014, particularly in the aftermath of Russia’s annexation of Crimea and
   the subsequent fighting in Eastern Ukraine. The ongoing conflict, which
   has lasted for over 20 months, has transformed into a protracted and
   violent struggle that surpasses original projections, resulting in a
   multifaceted humanitarian, political, and military predicament. The areas
   of conflict, spanning throughout Ukraine, are characterized by continuous
   artillery exchanges and substantial changes in territorial control, which
   undermine the chances for achieving peace. The conflict in Ukraine has
   resulted in a situation where all parties involved have established strong
   positions. Ukraine, with substantial backing from Western countries, is
   actively opposing the Russian attack. Nevertheless, against several
   obstacles and intense opposition, the Russian military continues its
   operations, resulting in a prolonged state of deadlock.

   The extent of human casualties resulting from this battle is substantial.
   The loss of life has resulted in a significant humanitarian disaster, with
   many casualties and a substantial number of people being displaced,
   reaching into the millions. The conflict in Ukraine has had a lasting
   impact on urban and rural areas, resulting in significant damage to
   infrastructure and the fragmentation of communities. The protracted
   conflict at hand serves as a manifestation of profound political,
   historical, and cultural frictions between Ukraine and Russia, therefore
   illustrating the intricate nature of contemporary warfare, whereby
   continuing fights are propelled by geopolitical ambitions, nationalistic
   sentiments, and ideological disparities. The engagement of external
   countries, each driven by geopolitical objectives, adds complexity to
   diplomatic efforts aimed at finding settlements.

   The impediments of the conflict extend beyond the territorial boundaries
   of Ukraine, exerting a significant impact on several facets of world
   affairs, including political dynamics, economic conditions, and security
   considerations. The aforementioned event has resulted in the most
   significant mobilization and reorganization of NATO troops since the end
   of the Cold War, therefore altering the structure of European security.
   From an economic standpoint, the war has adverse effects on global supply
   chains, namely in the oil and agricultural sectors, hence exacerbating
   inflationary pressures and fostering an atmosphere of uncertainty in the
   global economy. The ongoing crisis in Ukraine has sparked a widespread
   discussion on the concepts of sovereignty, international law, and the
   rules-based order at a global level. This has led governments to
   reevaluate their foreign policies and alliances, resulting in significant
   changes to the dynamics of global power. The ongoing regional war has
   evolved into a worldwide crisis, resulting in significant consequences
   that have had a profound impact on international relations and global
   stability.

   The reaction from the international community has shown a diverse range of
   approaches. The imposition of sanctions on Russia, spearheaded by Western
   countries, is intended to isolate Moscow and diminish its military
   capabilities. The aforementioned entities that have been affected by these
   attacks include Russian banks, enterprises, and authorities.
   Simultaneously, Ukraine has been the recipient of significant assistance,
   including military help from the United States, member states of the
   European Union, and other nations, in addition to extensive humanitarian
   support directed towards refugees. The United States has played a crucial
   role in mobilizing international support for Ukraine, spearheading the
   implementation of sanctions against Russia, and offering substantial
   military assistance. The European Union (EU) strategically manages its
   relationship with Ukraine while also considering its energy reliance on
   Russia. China, in its pursuit of a strategic cooperation with Russia,
   emphasizes the need of upholding principles such as respect for
   sovereignty and territorial integrity. Countries such as India place
   significant emphasis on the use of conversation and diplomacy as key
   approaches to address international issues.

   The goal of peace negotiations has encountered significant difficulties,
   as seen by the ongoing diplomatic discussions, including those initiated
   by the United Nations, which have so far failed to produce a satisfactory
   result. The intricate nature of the conflict and the varying goals of the
   parties involved have hindered the process of peace-building. The European
   security dynamics have undergone a significant transformation as a result
   of the conflict, leading to NATO’s reinforcement of its eastern flank and
   member states’ heightened military expenditures. The events outlined above
   highlight the need for a reevaluation of the collective defense principle
   and have sparked thoughtful discussions on the idea of European strategic
   autonomy within academic groups. In addition to permanently altering the
   face of international relations, this battle has sparked a worldwide
   reevaluation of power dynamics and reignited academic discussions on
   territorial integrity and national sovereignty. In response, governments
   are carefully reevaluating their relationships and adjusting their foreign
   policy goals in light of these significant changes.

   The conflict’s effects are seen throughout the world’s energy markets and
   supply, especially in light of Europe’s reliance on Russian energy
   supplies. As a result, there is a noticeable academic emphasis on
   promoting energy source diversity as a critical strategic move to lessen
   this reliance. The ensuing upheavals have been crucial in amplifying
   worldwide inflation rates and giving rise to economic instability on a
   worldwide level, offering researchers enough material for comprehensive
   examination. The continuing refugee crisis, which has resulted in the mass
   displacement of millions of Ukrainians, further complicates the
   geopolitical situation and poses difficult problems for host countries.
   Academics are investigating the complex effects of this crisis on these
   countries and examining the stresses it places on their socio-political
   and economic structures. The crisis in Ukraine has had a significant
   impact on the country’s healthcare system, which has drawn attention from
   academics who are studying the implications of public health crises and
   the difficulties in responding to them.

   Scholars are examining the strategic use of disinformation campaigns and
   the deft use of social media platforms as tools of influence to shape
   public opinion and policy choices in the context of information warfare.
   Scholarly examination of the media’s information-dissemination function
   reveals a range of viewpoints shaped by the geopolitical biases of various
   countries. The need for achieving a peaceful settlement is of utmost
   importance for ensuring the future stability of Ukraine as well as the
   global order.

     * Tags
     * Defense
     * Diplomacy
     * Russia
     * Ukraine
   Saba KiranSaba Kiran
   Saba Kiran
   Ms Saba Kiran is an MS graduate of the Department of Aerospace and
   Strategic Studies at Air University, Islamabad. She has a background in
   political science and takes an academic interest in ethnopolitical
   conflicts, national security, strategic stability, and social conflict
   analysis.

  Latest

   Defense

  The Imperative for Vigilant Monitoring of the Taliban in Post-U.S. Withdrawal
  Afghanistan

   Concerns about the Taliban's possible return and the threats...
   Read more
   Economy

  Institutionalization of BRICS: From Literature Review to Making Reality

   As BRICS becomes more grounded, the question arises as...
   Read more
   World News

  Japan’s Patriot-missile transfer to U.S. stuns Indo-Pacific watchers

   Japan's decision to ship Patriot missiles to the U.S....
   Read more
   World News

  Tyranny comes to our Main Street

   Americans today have the “freedom” to be fleeced, groped,...
   Read more
   Middle East

  Hamas Attack: It Wasn’t An “Intelligence Failure”

   Withing hours after October 7, Israeli headlines told the...
   Read more
   Previous article
   Mobile App Development: All Types and Cost
   Next article
   Beyond Putin and Macky Sall’s Phone Conversation
   Modern DiplomacyModern DiplomacyMODERN DIPLOMACYPRO
     * Agenda
     * Business
     * Regions
     * Security
     * Our Board
     * Contact Us

  About us

   MD does not stand behind any specific agenda, narrative, or school of
   thought. We aim to expose all ideas, thinkers, and arguments to the light
   and see what remains valid and sound.

  Company

     * Regions
     * Topics
     * Business
     * Security
     * News
     * Fine Living
     * More

  The latest

  The Imperative for Vigilant Monitoring of the Taliban in Post-U.S. Withdrawal
  Afghanistan

   Defense December 26, 2023
   Concerns about the Taliban's possible return and the threats...

  Institutionalization of BRICS: From Literature Review to Making Reality

   Economy December 26, 2023
   As BRICS becomes more grounded, the question arises as...

  Japan’s Patriot-missile transfer to U.S. stuns Indo-Pacific watchers

   World News December 26, 2023
   Japan's decision to ship Patriot missiles to the U.S....

   © 2023 moderndiplomacy.eu. All Rights Reserved.

   This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're
   ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.Accept Reject Read More
   Privacy &amp; Cookies Policy
   Close

    Privacy Overview

   This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate
   through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as
   necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working
   of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies
   that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These
   cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also
   have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of
   these cookies may affect your browsing experience.
   Necessary
   [ ] Necessary
   Always Enabled
   Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function
   properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic
   functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not
   store any personal information.
   Non-necessary
   [ ] Non-necessary
   Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to
   function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via
   analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary
   cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these
   cookies on your website.
   SAVE &amp; ACCEPT
</text>
</page>§
<page='en_ukraine-13'>
<text>
   Link: canonical
   Link: alternate en
   Link: alternate uk
   Link: canonical
   Link: shortlink
   Skip to main content

   Donate to the Ukraine Humanitarian Fund

   Close alert banner
   Welcome to the United Nations
     *    * English
          * Українська
   UN Logo [IMG]
   United Nations
   Ukraine
   United Nations
   Ukraine
   Find UN Data, Resources, News and more...
   _______________________________________ Submit search  Close search
     * About 
          * About the UN
          * The UN in Ukraine
          * UN Entities in Ukraine
          * The Resident Coordinator Office
          * Our Team in Ukraine
          * Contact Us
          * Sustainable Development Group
          * Our Work
     * Sustainable Development Goals 
     * Take Action 
     * Stories 
     * Resources 
          * Publications
          * Photos
          * Videos
     * Press Centre 
          * Press Releases
          * Speeches
          * Media Contacts
          * Events

Breadcrumb

   Home
   /
   Press Centre
   /
   Press Releases
   /
   Amidst the war, Ukraine’s First Mental Health Forum Hosts Hundreds in Kyiv
   Press Release

   Amidst the war, Ukraine’s First Mental Health Forum Hosts Hundreds in Kyiv

   23 October 2023

   KYIV, UKRAINE, 20 October 2023 – A first of its kind hybrid forum titled
   "Moving Towards Mental Health System &amp; Services of the Future: A Case of
   Building Back and Forward Better in Ukraine" wrapped up its three-day run
   in Kyiv today.

   Photo: © WHO Ukraine

   Organized by World Health Organization (WHO) and the Coordination Center
   for Mental Health of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the forum
   brought together over 400 participants, with over two thousand more
   joining online. These included representatives of government agencies and
   non-governmental sector, local and international organizations, mental
   health experts from Ukraine and a number of countries - France, the Czech
   Republic, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Belgium, Slovakia, Canada,
   as well as from WHO headquarters and the WHO Regional Office for Europe.

   "Our task and the task of such forums is to establish horizontal
   cooperation. We need to understand who refers to whom and where if
   necessary. Who should “pick up” and provide the exact assistance a person
   needs,” said Ukraine’s Minister of Health Dr. Viktor Liashko during the
   welcoming panel.

   The event served as a platform for showcasing global best practices,
   fostering the exchange of experiences, and crafting innovative solutions
   through cross-sectoral dialogue to address the pressing issue of mental
   health amidst the ongoing war in Ukraine.

   "Cooperation is important not only at the national but also at the
   international level,” said Vice Prime Minister and the Minister for
   Reintegration of the Temporarily Occupied Territories of Ukraine Iryna
   Vereshchuk. “Exchange of experience, coordination of efforts - all this is
   to ensure that all humanitarian resources sent to Ukraine go to where they
   are most needed.”

   The Forum hosted presentations, panel discussions, workshops, interactive
   zones, and a marketplace where participating organizations presented their
   achievements and developments in the area of mental health. Discussions
   spinned the entire spectrum of mental health care - from awareness raising
   and fostering a culture of self-help to human rights and engagement of
   people with lived experience of mental health conditions.

   "I am confident that the Forum will contribute to innovative solutions
   helping ensure that every Ukrainian has access to quality mental health
   services. We are continuing to make tremendous progress in spite of the
   ongoing war, and I am grateful to all the partners for coming together to
   make this work possible," added Dr. Jarno Habicht, WHO Representative in
   Ukraine.

   The Forum is held within the framework of the All-Ukrainian Mental Health
   Program, created and implemented at the initiative of First Lady of
   Ukraine Olena Zelenska.

   “Addressing the immense trauma and mental health impact of this war cannot
   wait. It is important to bring humanitarian supplies, but they need to be
   better connected to health care services and mental health support”,
   Denise Brown, UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator in Ukraine.

   Photo: © WHO Ukraine

    

   Photo: © WHO Ukraine
   Alona Volinsky

  Alona Volinsky

   WHO
   Head of Communication
   volinskya@who.int +380 50 417 0842
   linkedin
     * Twitter
     * Facebook
     * Linkedin
     * Email

  UN entities involved in this initiative

   WHO
   World Health Organization

  Other entities involved in this initiative

   UKR MH
   Ukraine Ministry of Health

Goals we are supporting through this initiative

   Good Health and Well-being Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions
   Partnerships for the Goals
   United Nations Ukraine
   Welcome to the United Nations country team website of Ukraine

   United Nations in Ukraine
   Office of the UN Resident Coordinator
   1 Klovsky Uzviz,
   Kyiv 01021, Ukraine
   Tel.: + 380 44 253 9363
   Fax: + 380 44 253 2607

   Footer menu
   About About
   Find out what the UN in Ukraine is doing towards the achievement of the
   Sustainable Development Goals.
   SDGs SDGs
   Our work on the Sustainable Development Goals.
   Take Action Take Action
   Let's Take Action Towards the Sustainable Development Goals
   Stories Stories
   Find out more about our work towards the Sustainable Development Goals.
   Resources Resources
   Find out more about our work towards the Sustainable Development Goals.
   Jobs Jobs
   Learn about employment opportunities across the UN in Ukraine.
   twitter
   facebook-f
   instagram
   © Copyright 2023 United Nations in Ukraine
   UN Logo United Nations
   Global U.N. menu
     * Contact
     * Copyright
     * Fraud Alert
     * Privacy Notice
     * Site Index
     * Terms of Use
</text>
</page>§
<page='en_ukraine-14'>
<text>
   Link: canonical
   Link: amphtml
   Link: image_src

Skip links

   Skip to Content

Live

Navigation menu

     * NewsShow more news sections
          * Middle East
          * Africa
          * Asia
          * US &amp; Canada
          * Latin America
          * Europe
          * Asia Pacific
     * Israel-Gaza war
     * Features
     * Economy
     * Opinion
     * Video
     * MoreShow more sections
          * Ukraine war
          * Coronavirus
          * Climate Crisis
          * Investigations
          * Interactives
          * In Pictures
          * Science &amp; Technology
          * Sport
          * Podcasts

Live

   Click here to search
   News|Military

                Russia-Ukraine war: List of key events, day 605

   As the war enters its 605th day, these are the main developments.

   A Ukrainian serviceman stands on German-made self-propelled anti-aircraft
   (SPAAG), known as the Flakpanzer Gepard, after military exercises in Odesa
   region on October 17, 2023, amid the Russian invasion in Ukraine. (Photo
   by Oleksandr GIMANOV / AFP)
   A Ukrainian serviceman stands on a German-made self-propelled
   anti-aircraft gun (SPAAG), known as the Flakpanzer Gepard, in Odesa region
   on October 17, 2023 [File: Oleksandr Gimanov/AFP]
   Published On 21 Oct 202321 Oct 2023

   Here is the situation on Saturday, October 21, 2023.

Fighting

     * A man was killed and a woman was left in a critical condition after a
       Russian missile hit homes in Kryvyi Rih in the central Ukrainian
       region of Dnipropetrovsk.
     * Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelenskyy visited the south of the
       country where he said his armed forces had repelled a new Russian
       offensive against the eastern town of Avdiivka and Ukrainian forces
       were holding their ground.
     * Russian President Vladimir Putin visited the headquarters of Russia’s
       Southern Military District, located less than 100km (60 miles) from
       Ukraine’s southeastern border. Putin was briefed on the war by the
       Chief of the General Staff, Valery Gerasimov, the Kremlin said.

     * The Ukrainian military said fighting was raging along the front line,
       with about 90 combat clashes in the past 24 hours. That compares with
       an average of about 60 daily clashes a week ago.
     * Russian forces have intensified attacks around Avdiivka and Kupiansk.
       Kyiv said the military aim of the Russian attacks around Avdiivka and
       Kupiansk was to draw in Ukrainian troops from other front lines and to
       try to gain ground before winter sets in.
     * The Institute for the Study of War, a US-based think tank, said
       Ukrainian forces appeared to have broken through on the eastern bank
       of the Dnipro river in Kherson.
     * Kyiv has not commented and Russia’s defence ministry said it had
       thwarted attempts by Ukrainian troops to establish a foothold on the
       Russian-controlled bank of the Dnipro river.
     * Russia named a replacement for the former head of the country’s
       Aerospace Forces. State media reported that Colonel General Viktor
       Afzalov, acting head of the air force, had officially replaced General
       Sergei Surovikin  – who came under suspicion following the revolt by
       Wagner mercenaries against Moscow’s military leaders earlier this
       year.

Politics

     * Russia ordered Russian American journalist Alsu Kurmasheva to be
       detained for three additional days, after prosecutors said she had
       failed to register as a “foreign agent”. Kurmasheva, who works for the
       US-funded Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty media outlet, was detained
       by law enforcement officers in the Russian city of Kazan.
     * Kyiv’s iconic Motherland statue representing a female warrior towering
       over the capital has reopened for public viewing after its Soviet-era
       hammer and sickle emblem was replaced with the Ukrainian trident.

Diplomacy

     * Biden and European Union leaders delivered a message of support for
       both Ukraine and Israel. “These conflicts show democracies must stand
       together,” European Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen said of both
       countries. Biden said: “We stood together to support the brave people
       of Ukraine in the face of Putin’s aggression. We’re standing together
       now to support Israel in the wake of Hamas’s appalling terrorist
       attack.”

     * Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov dismissed claims by Ukrainian
       officials that Moscow has profited from the Israel-Hamas war, which
       had taken public attention away from Ukraine.

Military aid

     * Biden requested urgent military aid for Ukraine and Israel in a
       massive $106bn security package, which includes $61bn in military aid
       for Ukraine and $14bn in military aid for Israel.
     * North Korea has condemned the US for supplying Ukraine with long-range
       ATACMS ballistic  missiles.

Regional security

     * Russia’s defence ministry released a video showing a UK reconnaissance
       above the Black Sea being intercepted by Russian jets to prevent it
       from entering Russian airspace.
     * US intelligence reported that Russia is using its spy network,
       state-run media and social media platforms to undermine public trust
       in elections around the world.
     * The International Criminal Court (ICC) said an “unprecedented”
       cyberattack it suffered in September was probably “espionage” aimed at
       undermining its work. The attack comes as Russian investigators have
       opened criminal cases against the ICC’s prosecutor and judges who
       issued an arrest warrant for Putin for war crimes earlier this year.

    

   Source: Al Jazeera and news agencies

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

     * AboutShow more
          * About Us
          * Code of Ethics
          * Terms and Conditions
          * EU/EEA Regulatory Notice
          * Privacy Policy
          * Cookie Policy
          * Cookie Preferences
          * Sitemap
          * Work for us
          * HR Quality
     * ConnectShow more
          * Contact Us
          * User Accounts Help
          * Advertise with us
          * Apps
          * Newsletters
          * Channel Finder
          * TV Schedule
          * Podcasts
          * Submit a Tip
     * Our ChannelsShow more
          * Al Jazeera Arabic
          * Al Jazeera English
          * Al Jazeera Investigative Unit
          * Al Jazeera Mubasher
          * Al Jazeera Documentary
          * Al Jazeera Balkans
          * AJ+
     * Our NetworkShow more
          * Al Jazeera Centre for Studies
          * Al Jazeera Media Institute
          * Learn Arabic
          * Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties &amp; Human Rights
          * Al Jazeera Forum
          * Al Jazeera Hotel Partners

   Follow Al Jazeera English:

     * * * * * Al Jazeera Media Network logo
   © 2023 Al Jazeera Media Network
</text>
</page>§
<page='en_ukraine-15'>
<text>
   Link: canonical
   Link: shortlink
   Link: image_src
   Link: alternate en
   Skip to main content
     * Help
   Log in
   ReliefWeb logo ReliefWeb

Content Search

   What are you looking for? _______________________________
   Search|t
     * Updates
     * Countries
     * Disasters
     * Organizations
     * Topics
     * Jobs
     * Training
   Informing humanitarians worldwide 24/7 — a service provided by UN OCHA

   Ukraine

   Ukraine: Child casualties in Ukraine rise 7% over the summer with over 540
                      children killed in 18 months of war

   Format
           News and Press Release

   Source
              * Save the Children

   Posted
           22 Aug 2023

   Originally published
           22 Aug 2023

   Toys and flowers lie in front of the drama theatre in Chernihiv, Ukraine,
   hit by missile strike on 19 August 2023. Toys and flowers lie in front of
   the drama theatre in Chernihiv, Ukraine, hit by missile strike on 19
   August 2023. © Olga Shults/Save the Children

   KYIV, 22 August 2023 - Child casualties in Ukraine increased by more than
   7% between May to August compared to the previous four months as air and
   drone attacks tripled, with no end to the danger faced by children after
   18 months of war, Save the Children said today.

   Since May 2023, a total of 148 children have been killed or injured in
   Ukraine, bringing the number of child casualties since the escalation of
   war on 24 Feb last year to more than 1,700, according to UN data. This
   includes 545 deaths, with 24 children killed this summer.

   The month of June was the deadliest so far this year for children with 11
   children killed and 43 more injured. According to verified UN data,[1]
   there was an increase in all civilian casualties in Ukraine in between 1
   May and 13 August with June recording the highest number of total civilian
   casualties in 2023 at 865.

   Conflict analytics reports showed that between Jan 1- April 30 there were
   459 air and drone strikes. This rose to 1,432 between 1 May and 4 August,
   with about 95% of these attacks in populated areas.

   In one such attack on the morning of 31 July, a missile hit an apartment
   block in Kryvyi Rih, Southern Dnipro, destroying five storeys of a
   high-rise building. A 10-year-old girl and her mother were killed in the
   incident, with more than 80 further reported casualties, including seven
   injured children.

   Lyudmyla’s* apartment was one of more than 250 homes damaged in the
   neighbourhood. All the windows of her family’s home were blown out by the
   explosion and the noise woke up her 18-year-old grandson.

   “He was shocked, and rushed outside straight from his bed once he heard
   the explosion. He could not even change his clothes. He later came back to
   grab documents and that is when another explosion occurred. He was
   terrified by such a loud noise,” said Lyudmyla*, 65.

   “My two other grandchildren – aged 11 and 13 – were staying with their
   mother at a relative’s house. They were just 300 metres away from the
   explosion. The windows and doors were also blown out at that apartment.
   Everyone was scared.”

   On 11 August, an 8-year-old boy was killed in Kolomyia, western Ukraine,
   after a missile struck the back garden of his family home. A family of
   four was killed by shelling in Kherson region two days later, including a
   12-year-old boy and a baby girl just 23 days old. Just last week on 19
   August, a six-year-old girl was among the seven people killed and 180
   injured in an attack in the northern city of Chernihiv.

   Amjad Yamin, Save the Children’s Advocacy Director in Ukraine, said:

   “*Ukraine is 18 months into full-scale war, and there seems to be no
   reprieve from the perilous circumstances endured by children and families.
   We have witnessed numerous attacks on populated areas that took the lives
   of children and their parents, left hundreds of people injured or severely
   distressed, and damaged or destroyed homes, plunging thousands of families
   into uncertainty. *

   *“Since last February, more than 1,*700 children have been killed or
   injured due to unrelenting hostilities. The vast majority of those
   casualties are attributed to missiles and drones being fired at
   residential areas. This serves as a grim reminder that explosive weapons
   should not be used anywhere near populated areas, such as towns and
   villages.”

   Save the Children is calling on all sides to adhere to obligations under
   international humanitarian and human rights law, and ensure that civilians
   and civilian objects, especially those used by children such as homes,
   schools, and hospitals, are protected from attack.

   Save the Children has been operating in Ukraine since 2014, delivering
   humanitarian aid to children and their families affected by hostilities.
   It is also supporting refugee families across Europe and helping children
   to access education and other critical services.

   ENDS

   *names are changed to protect identity.

   NOTES:

   Ukraine: Civilian casualties - 24 February 2022 to 30 June 2023 | OHCHR

   Ukraine: civilian casualty update 31 July 2023 | OHCHR

   Ukraine: civilian casualty update 14 August 2023 | OHCHR

   For more information please contact:

     * Vsevolod Prokofiev Vsevolod.Prokofiev@savethechildren.org (based in
       Kyiv)
     * Anna Rauhanen Anna.Rauhanen@savethechildren.org (based in London)
     * Our media out of hours (BST) contact is media@savethechildren.org.uk /
       +44(0)7831 650409

   Please also check our Twitter account @Save_GlobalNews for news alerts,
   quotes, statements and location Vlogs.

Report details

   Primary country
              * Ukraine

   Source
              * Save the Children

   Format
              * News and Press Release

   Theme
              * Protection and Human Rights

   Language
              * English

Share

     * Share this on Facebook
     * Share this on Twitter
     * Post this on LinkedIn

Related Content

   Ukraine

  Humanitarian Coordinator Denise Brown visits Hroza on Christmas Eve [EN/UK]

   Format
           News and Press Release

   Sources
              * OCHA
              * UN RC/HC Ukraine

   Posted
           24 Dec 2023

   Originally published
           24 Dec 2023

   Ukraine

  Ukraine Emergency: UNHCR Operational Response, Delivery Updates (22 December
  2023)

   Format
           Situation Report

   Source
              * UNHCR

   Posted
           24 Dec 2023

   Originally published
           24 Dec 2023

   Ukraine

  Drone strike on Kyiv [EN/UK]

   Format
           News and Press Release

   Source
              * Ukrainian Red Cross Society

   Posted
           24 Dec 2023

   Originally published
           22 Dec 2023

   Ukraine

  Guidance Note—Working with Male Survivors of Sexual Violence in Ukraine

   Format
           Manual and Guideline

   Source
              * WRC

   Posted
           22 Dec 2023

   Originally published
           22 Dec 2023

Subscribe

   Subscribe to ReliefWeb Blog _____________________ [ Subscribe ]
   Do not fill in this field _____________________
     * Blog
     * Labs
     * About Us
     * Terms
     * Contact
     * Facebook  
     * Twitter  
     * LinkedIn  
     * Instagram  
     * Telegram 
   Service provided by United Nations Office for the Coordination of
   Humanitarian Affairs United Nations Office for the Coordination of
   Humanitarian Affairs  OCHA coordinates the global emergency response to
   save lives and protect people in humanitarian crises. We advocate for
   effective and principled humanitarian action by all, for all.

   ReliefWeb's Terms &amp; Conditions.

   © 2023 all rights reserved.

OCHA Services

   Related Platforms

     * Reliefweb Response
     * Humanitarian Data Exchange
     * Humanitarian InSight
     * Central Emergency Response Fund

   Other OCHA Services

     * Financial Tracking Service
     * Humanitarian Data Exchange
     * Humanitarian ID
     * ReliefWeb Response

    

     * Inter-Agency Standing Committee
     * OCHA website
     * ReliefWeb
     * Virtual OSOCC
   See all
</text>
</page>§
<page='en_ukraine-16'>
<text>
   Link: canonical
   Link: amphtml
   Skip to main contentSkip to navigationSkip to key eventsSkip to navigation
   Print subscriptions
   Sign in
   Search jobs
   Search
   Europe edition [ ]
     * Europe edition
     * UK edition
     * US edition
     * Australia edition
     * International edition
   The Guardian - Back to homeThe Guardian
   [ ]
     * News
     * Opinion
     * Sport
     * Culture
     * Lifestyle
   ShowMoreShow More
     * [ ] News
          * View all News
          * World news
          * UK news
          * Climate crisis
          * Ukraine
          * Environment
          * Science
          * Global development
          * Football
          * Tech
          * Business
          * Obituaries
     * [ ] Opinion
          * View all Opinion
          * The Guardian view
          * Columnists
          * Cartoons
          * Opinion videos
          * Letters
     * [ ] Sport
          * View all Sport
          * Football
          * Cricket
          * Rugby union
          * Tennis
          * Cycling
          * F1
          * Golf
          * US sports
     * [ ] Culture
          * View all Culture
          * Books
          * Music
          * TV &amp; radio
          * Art &amp; design
          * Film
          * Games
          * Classical
          * Stage
     * [ ] Lifestyle
          * View all Lifestyle
          * Fashion
          * Food
          * Recipes
          * Love &amp; sex
          * Health &amp; fitness
          * Home &amp; garden
          * Women
          * Men
          * Family
          * Travel
          * Money
     * Search input
       _____________________
       google-search
       Search
       [ Submit ]
          * Support us
          * Print subscriptions
     * [ ] Europe edition
          * UK edition
          * US edition
          * Australia edition
          * International edition
     *    * Search jobs
          * Holidays
          * Digital Archive
          * Guardian Puzzles app
          * Guardian Licensing
          * About Us
          * The Guardian app
          * Video
          * Podcasts
          * Pictures
          * Newsletters
          * Today's paper
          * Inside the Guardian
          * The Observer
          * Guardian Weekly
          * Crosswords
          * Wordiply
          * Corrections
     *    * Facebook
          * Twitter
     *    * Search jobs
          * Holidays
          * Digital Archive
          * Guardian Puzzles app
          * Guardian Licensing
          * About Us
     * World
     * Europe
     * US
     * Americas
     * Asia
     * Australia
     * Middle East
     * Africa
     * Inequality
     * Global development
   Ukraine war liveUkraine
   This article is more than 1 month old

Russia-Ukraine war live: wave of drone attacks on Kyiv for second night – as it
                                    happened

   This article is more than 1 month old

   British MoD says heavy Russian losses at Avdiivka and little progress for
   either side; Russia claims attempted Ukrainian drone attack in Bogorodsky
   area

     * You can read more of our Ukraine war coverage here
    Updated 19 Nov 2023

    Tom Ambrose (now); Kirsty McEwen and Fran Singh (earlier)

   Sun 19 Nov 2023 18.22 CETFirst published on Sun 19 Nov 2023 09.09 CET
     * * * Key events
     * 19 Nov 2023
       Afternoon summary
     * 19 Nov 2023
       Ukrainian teen taken from Mariupol returned home
     * 19 Nov 2023
       Russia says Ukraine attempted to attack Bogorodsky area, near Moscow,
       using a drone
     * 19 Nov 2023
       Pro-war Russian nationalist Igor Girkin says he wants to run for
       president
     * 19 Nov 2023
       Ukrainian army pushes Russians ‘3km to 8km’ away from Dnipro River
     * 19 Nov 2023
       Five people injured in shelling on Kherson, says Ukrainian interior
       minister
     * 19 Nov 2023
       Ukrainian troops trying to push back Russian forces on east bank of
       Dnipro River
     * 19 Nov 2023
       Drones attacked Kyiv in waves, says head of capital's military
       administration
     * 19 Nov 2023
       Russia launches waves of drone attacks on Kyiv early on Sunday
   A Ukrainian soldier checks shells at his fighting position in the
   direction of Bakhmut, Ukraine.
   [ ]
   A Ukrainian soldier checks shells at his fighting position in the
   direction of Bakhmut, Ukraine. Photograph: Anadolu Agency/Anadolu/Getty
   Images
   A Ukrainian soldier checks shells at his fighting position in the
   direction of Bakhmut, Ukraine. Photograph: Anadolu Agency/Anadolu/Getty
   Images

    Tom Ambrose (now); Kirsty McEwen and Fran Singh (earlier)

   Sun 19 Nov 2023 18.22 CETFirst published on Sun 19 Nov 2023 09.09 CET
     * * * [ Submit ]Show key events only
   Please turn on JavaScript to use this feature

Live feed

   Key events
     * 19 Nov 2023
       Afternoon summary
     * 19 Nov 2023
       Ukrainian teen taken from Mariupol returned home
     * 19 Nov 2023
       Russia says Ukraine attempted to attack Bogorodsky area, near Moscow,
       using a drone
     * 19 Nov 2023
       Pro-war Russian nationalist Igor Girkin says he wants to run for
       president
     * 19 Nov 2023
       Ukrainian army pushes Russians ‘3km to 8km’ away from Dnipro River
     * 19 Nov 2023
       Five people injured in shelling on Kherson, says Ukrainian interior
       minister
     * 19 Nov 2023
       Ukrainian troops trying to push back Russian forces on east bank of
       Dnipro River
     * 19 Nov 2023
       Drones attacked Kyiv in waves, says head of capital's military
       administration
     * 19 Nov 2023
       Russia launches waves of drone attacks on Kyiv early on Sunday
   [ Submit ]Show key events only
   Please turn on JavaScript to use this feature
   19 Nov 202318.22 CET

   That’s it from the Ukraine live blog for this evening. Thanks for
   following along.

   You can continue to follow the latest news from Russia’s war on Ukraine
   here. Goodnight.

     * * 19 Nov 202317.54 CET
   Three Ukrainian servicemen, one of whom is smoking a cigarette, stand in a
   wooded area
   Ukrainian servicemen take a break on the frontline near the town of
   Bakhmut, in the Donetsk region. Photograph: Anatolii Stepanov/AFP/Getty
   Images
     * * Updated at 18.07 CET
   19 Nov 202317.02 CET

Afternoon summary

   As it turns 6pm in Kyiv, Ukraine’s capital, here’s a roundup of today’s
   news so far:

     * Russia launched waves of drone attacks on Kyiv overnight, the head of
       the Ukrainian capital’s military administration said. Serhiy Popko
       said on Sunday that, according to preliminary information, Ukraine’s
       air defence systems hit about 10 Iranian-made Shahed kamikaze drones
       in Kyiv and its outskirts.

     * Ukrainian troops have pushed Russian forces ‘3km to 8km’ back from the
       banks of the Dnipro River. “Preliminary figures vary from three to
       eight kilometres, depending on the specifics, geography and landscape
       design of the left bank,” the army spokesperson Natalia Gumenyuk told
       Ukrainian television, without specifying whether Ukraine’s military
       had complete control of the area or whether the Russians had
       retreated.

     * Five people have been injured in shelling on Kherson, said the
       Ukrainian interior minister. A three-year-old girl was among those
       injured after artillery shelling, said Ihor Klymenko.

     * The pro-war Russian nationalist Igor Girkin has said he wants to run
       for president. Girkin, who is in custody awaiting trial for inciting
       extremism, said on Sunday he wanted to run even though he understood
       the March election would be a “sham” with the winner already clear.

     * Russia has said Ukraine attempted to attack Bogorodsky area, near
       Moscow, using a drone, with Moscow’s mayor, Sergei Sobyanin, saying
       later on Telegram that the foiled attack “did not cause any damage or
       casualties”.

     * A Ukrainian orphan taken from Mariupol after Russian forces captured
       the Ukrainian city in the first weeks of its invasion has returned
       home, Kyiv said on Sunday.

     * Vladimir Putin is reportedly going to attend the G20 virtual summit on
       Wednesday, hosted by the Indian prime minister, Narendra Modi.

     * * Updated at 17.32 CET
   19 Nov 202316.38 CET

   Photographs from a military funeral held yesterday at the Lychakiv
   cemetery for Ukrainian armed forces members Taras Syvenkyi, Ivan Ravlinko
   and Andrii Pylypiv.

   A guard covers a coffin with the Ukrainian flag during the burial ceremony
   at the Lychakiv cemetery
   A guard covers a coffin with the Ukrainian flag during the burial ceremony
   at the Lychakiv cemetery. Photograph: Global Images Ukraine/Getty Images
   A mother cries near her son’s grave during the ceremony
   A mother cries near her son’s grave during the ceremony. Photograph:
   Global Images Ukraine/Getty Images
   The funeral procession
   The funeral procession. Photograph: Global Images Ukraine/Getty Images
     * * Updated at 16.44 CET
   19 Nov 202316.01 CET

   More on Vladimir Putin’s possible attendance at the G20 virtual summit
   after he skipped the in-person meeting in New Delhi in September.

   The Russian president did not travel to the last two G20 meetings – hosted
   by India in September and Indonesia last year, sending his foreign
   minister, Sergei Lavrov, in his place.

   In a statement on Saturday, India said its prime minister, Narendra Modi,
   would chair a virtual summit on Wednesday to “take forward key, select
   outcomes/action points from the New Delhi summit”.

   Putin has taken few trips outside Russia since the international criminal
   court issued an arrest warrant for him over the unlawful deportation of
   Ukrainian children.

     * * Updated at 16.08 CET
   19 Nov 202315.02 CET

Ukrainian teen taken from Mariupol returned home

   A Ukrainian orphan taken from Mariupol after Russian forces captured the
   Ukrainian city in the first weeks of its invasion has returned home, Kyiv
   said on Sunday.

   The case of Bogdan Yermokhin, who turned 18 on Sunday, made international
   headlines after Russia issued him a draft summons to report for mandatory
   military conscription before his 18th birthday.

   It was announced he would return on 10 November and today Kyiv said he had
   made it back to Ukraine after a series of negotiations involving officials
   in Moscow, Kyiv and Belarus.

   “Our team managed to bring home Bogdan Yermokhin, a Ukrainian boy who was
   taken by Russia from occupied Mariupol to the Moscow region,” said Andriy
   Yermak, the Ukrainian president’s chief of staff.

   The Kremlin has been accused of illegally transferring thousands of
   Ukrainian children to Russia, and the international criminal court has
   issued an arrest warrant for Vladimir Putin over the alleged deportations.

   Yermokhin’s return was brokered by Qatar and the UN children’s agency,
   Unicef, said Ukraine’s human rights ombudsman Dmytro Lubinets in a social
   media post.

   He also published a photo of Yermokhin holding a Ukrainian flag at the
   border.

     🇺🇦Bohdan Yermokhin is in Ukraine!

     Together with other state authorities, the team of the Office of the
     Ombudsman worked out a way to return the boy within the framework of the
     implementation of the approved @bkb_ua action plan of the President of
     Ukraine @ZelenskyyUa pic.twitter.com/0wGh9fQtI4

     — Dmytro Lubinets (@lubinetzs) November 19, 2023

     * * Updated at 16.11 CET
   19 Nov 202314.43 CET

Russia says Ukraine attempted to attack Bogorodsky area, near Moscow, using a
drone

   “An attempt by the Kyiv regime to carry out a terrorist attack using a
   drone against facilities of the Russian Federation was thwarted,” the
   Russian defence ministry said in a statement.

   Ukrainian drone attacks on Moscow were particularly frequent in the
   spring, before the launch of its counteroffensive in June, but they have
   been rare in recent weeks.

   According to the Russian ministry, the drone in question “was destroyed by
   the air defence equipment … over the territory of the Bogorodsky urban
   district, in the Moscow region”.

   Moscow’s mayor, Sergei Sobyanin, said later on Telegram that the foiled
   attack “did not cause any damage or casualties”.

     * * Updated at 14.52 CET
   19 Nov 202314.07 CET

   Ukrainian authorities said two first responders were killed and at least
   seven people injured in Russian rocket strikes on the south-eastern region
   of Zaporizhzhia on Saturday.

   The attacks came as Kyiv’s air force said Russia fired 38 drones at its
   territory overnight – the highest reported number in more than six weeks.

   Ukrainian police said Russia fired a series of rocket strikes at the
   village of Komyshuvakha, close to the frontline in the Zaporizhzhia
   region, which Russia annexed last year.

   “As a result of the first two strikes, four local residents were injured
   and a fire broke out in a residential building,” they said in a statement.

   “When the police and rescuers arrived at the scene, Russians conducted
   another strike. Two emergency service workers were killed, and three more
   were injured.”

     * * Updated at 14.43 CET
   19 Nov 202313.17 CET

Pro-war Russian nationalist Igor Girkin says he wants to run for president

   The pro-war Russian nationalist Igor Girkin, who is in custody awaiting
   trial for inciting extremism, said on Sunday he wanted to run for
   president even though he understood the March election would be a “sham”
   with the winner already clear.

   Girkin, who is also known by the alias Igor Strelkov, has repeatedly said
   Russia faces revolution and even civil war unless Vladimir Putin’s
   military leadership fights the war in Ukraine more effectively.

   A former Federal Security Service officer who helped Russia to annex
   Crimea in 2014 and then to organise pro-Russia militias in eastern
   Ukraine, Girkin said before his arrest that he and his supporters were
   entering politics.

   “I understand perfectly well that in the current situation in Russia,
   participating in the presidential campaign is like sitting down at a table
   to play with card sharps,” Girkin said in a letter published by his
   account on Telegram.

   Girkin said he did not think he would be allowed to take part in the
   election, but hoped that his attempt to unite patriotic forces would
   disrupt the Kremlin’s plan for a “sham election” in which “the only winner
   is known in advance”.

   “This is our chance to unite in the face of external and internal
   threats,” Girkin said in the post, which was titled: “I am going to run.”

   The Kremlin spokesperson, Dmitry Peskov, said in an interview published on
   Friday that he hoped Putin would run in the March election for another
   term as president, a move that would keep Putin in power until at least
   2030.

     * * Updated at 13.27 CET
   19 Nov 202312.30 CET

   The Russian president, Vladimir Putin, may take part in a G20 virtual
   summit this week, the state TV presenter Pavel Zarubin said on his
   Telegram channel.

   If this happens, it would be the “first event in a long time” in which
   both Putin and western leaders have participated, Zarubin said.

   According to the RIA Novosti news agency, the summit will be held on
   Wednesday.

     * * Updated at 13.58 CET
   19 Nov 202312.16 CET

Ukrainian army pushes Russians ‘3km to 8km’ away from Dnipro River

   The Ukrainian army said on Sunday that it had pushed Russian forces back
   “three to eight kilometres” from the banks of the Dnipro River, which if
   confirmed would be the first meaningful advance by Kyiv’s forces months
   into a disappointing counteroffensive.

   “Preliminary figures vary from three to eight kilometres, depending on the
   specifics, geography and landscape design of the left bank,” the army
   spokesperson Natalia Gumenyuk told Ukrainian television, without
   specifying whether Ukraine’s military had complete control of the area or
   if the Russians had retreated.

   “The enemy still continues artillery fire on the right bank,” she said,
   estimating that “several tens of thousands” of Russian troops were in the
   area.

   “We have a lot of work to do,” she added.

     * * Updated at 17.40 CET
   19 Nov 202311.38 CET

Five people injured in shelling on Kherson, says Ukrainian interior minister

   Five people including a three-year-old girl were injured in Russian
   artillery shelling of Kherson on Sunday morning, the Ukrainian interior
   minister, Ihor Klymenko, said.

   “All of them sustained shrapnel wounds. The child and the grandmother were
   walking in the yard. Enemy artillery hit them near the entrance,” Klymenko
   said on the Telegram messaging app.

     * * Updated at 11.43 CET
   19 Nov 202311.02 CET

Ukrainian troops trying to push back Russian forces on east bank of Dnipro River

   And now a latest update on the fight at the Dnipro River, where Ukrainian
   troops were aiming to push back Russian forces positioned on the east
   bank, the Ukrainian military says, according to the AP.

   The wide river is a natural dividing line along the southern battlefront.
   Since withdrawing from the city of Kherson and retreating across the river
   a year ago, Moscow’s forces have regularly shelled communities on the
   Ukrainian-held side of the river to prevent Kyiv’s troops from advancing
   toward Russia-annexed Crimea.

   The Ukrainians are trying to “push back Russian army units as far as
   possible in order to make life easier for the (western) bank of the
   Kherson region, so that they get shelled less,” Natalia Humeniuk, the
   spokesperson for Ukraine’s Southern Operational Command, said.

   In response, the Russian military used “tactical aviation”, including
   Iranian-made Shahed exploding drones, to try to pin down Ukraine’s troops,
   Humeniuk said.

   The general staff of Ukraine’s armed forces said its troops there had
   repelled 12 attacks by the Russian army between Friday and Saturday, the
   AP reports.

     * * Updated at 12.10 CET
   19 Nov 202310.34 CET

   Here are some of the latest pictures coming in from the global news
   agencies:

   An explosion of a drone is seen in the sky over Kyiv
   An explosion of a drone is seen in the sky over Kyiv. Photograph: Gleb
   Garanich/Reuters
   Ukrainian servicemen rest in an underground shelter on the frontline near
   the town of Bakhmut
   Ukrainian servicemen rest in an underground shelter on the frontline near
   the town of Bakhmut. Photograph: Anatolii Stepanov/AFP/Getty Images
   A protest denouncing corruption and calling for better funding of the
   armed forces of Ukraine
   A protest denouncing corruption and calling for better funding of the
   armed forces of Ukraine. Photograph: Global Images Ukraine/Getty Images
     * * Updated at 10.54 CET
   19 Nov 202309.28 CET

Drones attacked Kyiv in waves, says head of capital's military administration

   More now on those drone attacks reported in Kyiv.

   Serhiy Popko, the head of Kyiv’s military administration, explained why
   raid alerts were announced several times in the Ukrainian capital.

   “The enemy’s UAVs [unmanned aerial vehicles] were launched in many groups
   and attacked Kyiv in waves, from different directions, at the same time
   constantly changing the vectors of movement along the route,” he said,
   quoted by Reuters.

   After a pause of 52 days, Moscow has resumed airstrikes on Kyiv. On
   Saturday, Ukrainian officials said all drones heading towards Kyiv were
   destroyed, but some hit infrastructure elsewhere in Ukraine.

   Popko said on Sunday that according to preliminary information Ukraine’s
   air defence systems hit about 10 Iranian-made Shahed kamikaze drones in
   Kyiv and its outskirts.

   Reuters could not independently verify the reports and there was no
   immediate comment from Russia.

     * * Updated at 09.41 CET
   19 Nov 202309.09 CET

Russia launches waves of drone attacks on Kyiv early on Sunday

   Hello, this is the Guardian’s live coverage of the Russian war against
   Ukraine.

   Russia launched several waves of drone attacks on Kyiv early on Sunday for
   the second night in row, stepping up its assaults on the Ukrainian capital
   after several weeks of pause, the city’s military administration said.

   There were no initial reports of “critical damage” or casualties, said
   Serhiy Popko, the head of the Kyiv’s military administration, quoted by
   Reuters.

   Here are some more developments:

     * Ukraine’s president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, has sanctioned 37 Russian
       groups and 108 people including a former prime minister and a former
       education minister and said he aimed to fight wartime abductions of
       children from Ukraine and other “Russian terror”.

     * Ukrainian officials said on Saturday that its armed forces shot down
       29 of 38 drones in an overnight raid. More than 400 towns and villages
       in the south, south-east and north of the country were affected by the
       drone attacks, including an oil refinery that was hit in Odesa.

     * Ukrainian troops are working to push back Russian forces positioned on
       the east bank of the Dnipro River, the military has said, a day after
       Ukraine claimed to have secured bridgeheads on that side of the river
       that divides the country’s partially occupied Kherson region.

   Ukrainian soldiers navigate on the Dnipro River by boat at the frontline
   near Kherson, Ukraine, in June 2023
   Ukrainian soldiers navigate on the Dnipro River by boat at the frontline
   near Kherson, Ukraine, in June. Photograph: Felipe Dana/AP
     * Ukraine’s armed forces claimed to have killed a further 620 Russian
       soldiers on Friday during operations. In response, Russia has said it
       had heavily bombed Ukrainian forces near the Dnipro River and killed
       about 75 soldiers.

     * Two Ukrainian emergency workers were killed in the Zaporizhzhia region
       by Russian rocket attacks on Saturday. Ukrainian police said seven
       people were also injured when Russia fired a series of rocket strikes
       at the village of Komyshuvakha, close to the frontline in the
       Zaporizhzhia region, which Russia claimed to have annexed last year.

     * In an intelligence briefing, the UK’s Ministry of Defence noted
       Russian forces were suffering “particularly heavy casualties” in
       fighting around Avdiivka, one of three areas seeing heavy ground
       fighting. Despite the heavy fighting, the MoD said neither side was
       making significant progress.

     * Hungary must say no to the current Europe model built in Brussels, the
       prime minister, Viktor Orbán, told a congress of his Fidesz party on
       Saturday,  as his government continues to object to Ukraine joining
       the EU.

     * The German chancellor, Olaf Scholz, has called on the Russian
       president, Vladimir Putin, to take the first step towards a peaceful
       resolution to the conflict in Ukraine by withdrawing troops.

   German Chancellor Olaf Scholz waits for the arrival of the Turkish
   president this week in Berlin.
   German Chancellor Olaf Scholz waits for the arrival of the Turkish
   president this week in Berlin. Photograph: Odd Andersen/AFP/Getty Images
     * More than 100 Russian doctors have signed a joint letter calling on
       Putin to release a woman jailed for a supermarket protest against the
       war in Ukraine. A St Petersburg court last week sentenced Alexandra
       Skochilenko, 33, to seven years in prison for spreading “false
       information” after she swapped supermarket price tags with slogans
       criticising Russia’s offensive in Ukraine.

     * Ukraine has been the target of nearly 4,000 cyber-attacks since the
       invasion began, three times higher than before, according to Ukrainian
       officials who oversee cyber defences.

     * * Updated at 09.25 CET
   Explore more on these topics
     * Ukraine
     * Ukraine war live
     * Russia
     * * * * * * Reuse this content

Most viewed

Most viewed

     * World
     * Europe
     * US
     * Americas
     * Asia
     * Australia
     * Middle East
     * Africa
     * Inequality
     * Global development
     * News
     * Opinion
     * Sport
     * Culture
     * Lifestyle
   Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every
   morning
   Sign up for our email
     * Help
     * Complaints &amp; corrections
     * SecureDrop
     * Work for us
     *  
     * Privacy policy
     * Cookie policy
     * Terms &amp; conditions
     * Contact us
     * All topics
     * All writers
     * Digital newspaper archive
     * Facebook
     * YouTube
     * Instagram
     * LinkedIn
     * Twitter
     * Newsletters
     * Advertise with us
     * Search UK jobs
   Back to top
   © 2023 Guardian News &amp; Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All
   rights reserved. (dcr)
</text>
</page>§
<page='en_ukraine-17'>
<text>
   Subscribe
   Stars and Stripes
   _____________________ [ Submit ]
   Login
     * Theaters
     * Branches
     * Veterans
     * History
     * Living
     * Sports
     * Multimedia
     * Communities
   _____________________ [ Submit ]
     * Theaters
     * U.S.
     * Europe
     * - K-town Now
     * Asia-Pacific
     * - Storm Tracker
     * Middle East
     * Americas
     * Africa
     * Veterans
     * News
     * Map of Memorials
     * VA Loans
     * Jobs
     * Obituaries
     * Living
     * Events
     * Entertainment
     * - Movies
     * - Video Games
     * Europe Travel
     * - Quick Trips
     * - After Hours
     * - Events
     * Pacific Travel
     * - Quick Trips
     * - After Hours
     * - Events
     * The Meat and Potatoes of Life
     * U.S. Travel
     * Opinion
     * Storm Tracker
     * Promotions
     * Rewards for readers
     * Get Stripes
     * Subscribe
     * ePaper
     * Stripes Lite
     * Archives/Library
     * Special Publications
     * Mobile Apps
     * Email Newsletters
     * Digital Access
     * Home Delivery
     * Branches
     * Army
     * Marine Corps
     * Navy
     * Air Force
     * Coast Guard
     * Space Force
     * Promotions
     * History
     * Archive photo of the day
     * Sports
     * Europe
     * Pacific
     * U.S.
     * Multimedia
     * Podcasts
     * - Military Matters
     * - Force for Hire
     * Out of Uniform
     * Videos
     * Communities
     * Stripes Europe
     * Stripes Guam
     * Stripes Japan
     * Stripes Korea
     * Stripes Okinawa
     * Our Other Websites
     * In Memoriam
     * Month of the Military Child
     * Best of Germany
     * Best of the Pacific
     * Letters to Santa
     * Pen Pal
     * Printshop
     * eStore
   subscribe customer help contact us faq advertise with us
   Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Facebook

Follow Us:

  Europe

 Russian losses in Ukraine have wiped out its advantage in Baltics, report says

   By
   John Vandiver
   John Vandiver
   Stars and Stripes • November 24, 2023

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

   Soldiers from the 101st Airborne Division return fire during a
   platoon-level exercise at Nurispalu Training Area, Estonia, June 25, 2023.

   Soldiers from the 101st Airborne Division return fire during a
   platoon-level exercise at Nurispalu Training Area, Estonia, June 25, 2023.
   (Oscar Gollaz/U.S. Army)

   STUTTGART, Germany — Russia’s battlefield losses in Ukraine have
   eliminated the military advantages it once held over NATO allies in the
   Baltic region, a new think tank report says.

   “Russia has effectively lost its position of power and the capacity to
   threaten its neighbors with projections of military power,” Pavel Baev
   wrote in a November report for the French Institute of International
   Relations.

   Baev, a longtime Russia expert who once worked at a research institute
   inside the Soviet Union’s defense ministry, argues many Western policy
   planners haven’t grasped the long-term implications of what the war in
   Ukraine means for security in the Baltics.

   While some in the West see Russia’s weakened position as transitional and
   a Russian comeback inevitable, Moscow sees the loss of its conventional
   military edge in the Baltics as “both unacceptable and irreversible,” Baev
   said.

   The Baltic nations of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania were annexed by the
   Soviet Union during World War II. Since becoming independent in the 1990s,
   their forces always have been far smaller and less developed than
   Russia’s.

   However, they have welcomed training with U.S. troops and other NATO
   allies, which are required to collectively defend the Baltic nations if
   they are attacked, in line with the alliance’s treaty.

   Soldiers from 2nd Armored Brigade Combat Team, 3rd Infantry Division, fire
   missiles during exercise Iron Spear in Adazi, Latvia, Nov. 13, 2023. Since
   Russia's initial invasion of Ukraine in 2014, NATO has added multinational
   battlegroups in the Baltics and Poland, and ramped up rotations of other
   combat forces in the region.

   Soldiers from 2nd Armored Brigade Combat Team, 3rd Infantry Division, fire
   missiles during exercise Iron Spear in Adazi, Latvia, Nov. 13, 2023. Since
   Russia's initial invasion of Ukraine in 2014, NATO has added multinational
   battlegroups in the Baltics and Poland, and ramped up rotations of other
   combat forces in the region. (Bernabe Lopez III/U.S. Army)

   Russia’s war in Ukraine has taken an extreme toll on its military and
   challenges its ability to maintain a large force on its western flank with
   NATO, the report said. The study argues that Moscow’s strategic goal of
   turning its military exclave of Kaliningrad into a launching pad to
   dominate the central part of the Baltic region “has effectively been
   canceled.”

   Moreover, Ukraine’s ability to target Russian military infrastructure
   around Crimea has exposed weaknesses in Russia’s coastal defense weapon
   systems. Those vulnerabilities also apply to the Russian military along
   the Baltic coast.

   Beyond the tactical weaknesses, Russian capabilities were compromised as
   assets moved to the war front. Many of the Baltic units tasked with
   guarding Russia’s western border with NATO countries have been decimated
   during the nearly two years of fighting in Ukraine, according to the
   report, which cites a lengthy list of damaged units.

   “Whatever the scope of the outcome of the war, Russia will not be able to
   rebuild a position of military superiority in the Baltic theater or even
   to set an approximate balance of forces with NATO, which is implementing a
   new plan to strengthen its posture in this reconfigured direction,” Baev
   said.

   Moscow could be forced to rely more on long-range missiles and talk up its
   nuclear capability for deterrence purposes, to make up for its
   conventional military disadvantages.

   Troops from Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, the U.K. and the U.S.,
   assigned to NATOs enhanced Forward Presence Battle Group Poland, stage
   their vehicles before a firepower demonstration in Adazi, Latvia, Nov. 13,
   2023.

   Troops from Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, the U.K. and the U.S.,
   assigned to NATOs enhanced Forward Presence Battle Group Poland, stage
   their vehicles before a firepower demonstration in Adazi, Latvia, Nov. 13,
   2023. (U.S. Army)

   “Plain strategic logic dictates that weakness of conventional forces
   necessitates greater reliance on nuclear capabilities, and the Baltic
   theater may see applications of this logic,” the report says.

   Regardless of the outcome of the war, Russia also will need to position
   forces along its southern border with Ukraine for the long-haul, the
   report says.

   For years, the Baltics have been a focal point for the American-led NATO
   alliance, which has strengthened its position in the region amid concerns
   that it was outgunned by Russia. Many of the alliance’s changes were
   prompted by Russia’s initial 2014 intervention in Ukraine, which shattered
   old post-Cold War assumptions about a more secure Europe.

   In the years before 2014, many NATO militaries drastically reduced defense
   spending, shrunk the sizes of their militaries and regarded the prospect
   of large-scale conflict on the European continent as an anachronism.

   The U.S. military also sharply scaled back on the Continent, removing the
   last of its battle tanks from Europe just months before Russia’s
   annexation of Ukraine’s Crimean Peninsula.

   The diminished NATO force prompted angst among security analysts at the
   time. Those concerns were reinforced by a large war game, carried out by
   the Rand Corp. think tank with the assistance of numerous American
   military commands between 2014 and 2015.

   It found a Russian offensive in the Baltics would overwhelm lesser-armed
   alliance forces and seize the Estonian and Latvian capitals in a matter of
   hours.

   The Rand war game, which garnered much attention at the time, said “the
   outcome was, bluntly, a disaster for NATO.”

   Since then, NATO has added multinational battlegroups in the Baltics and
   Poland and ramped up rotations of other combat forces in the region,
   including U.S. Army tank units.

   That, along with the addition of Finland into NATO and eventually Sweden,
   tipped the balance in the Baltics to NATO’s favor, Baev said.

   “With the accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO, the Baltic theater is
   reconfigured so profoundly to Russia’s disadvantage that no amount of
   effort could make ‘Fortress Kaliningrad’ defensible,” the report said.

   author picture
   John Vandiver
   John Vandiver
   John covers U.S. military activities across Europe and Africa. Based in
   Stuttgart, Germany, he previously worked for newspapers in New Jersey,
   North Carolina and Maryland. He is a graduate of the University of
   Delaware.

previous coverage

     * American and allied military leaders discuss Ukraine weapons needs at
       new council
     * NATO chief tells allies it’s time to increase arms stockpiles, stay on
       war footing

related stories

     * Debut of F-16 training center in Romania complements $2.5 billion
       Abrams tank buy
     * Army field-tests AI system that shields wireless network use from foes

  Subscribe to Stars and Stripes

   Just 99c a week! Subscribe

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

stars and stripes videos

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

around the web

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

stripes top news

   U.S. soldiers conduct an artillery live fire exercise at Al Asad Air Base,
   Iraq, on Dec. 1.

  Middle East

   Biden orders strike on Iranian-aligned group after 3 US troops injured in
   drone attack in Iraq 
   Navy mine countermeasures ship USS Devastator departs Naval Support
   Activity Bahrain for sea trials Dec. 17, 2023. The ship underwent a
   seven-month maintenance period, which was completed 18 days ahead of
   schedule.

  Navy

   Navy mine-hunting ship in Middle East ready again as fixes finished early
   Alexander Schweitzer, left, Army Spc. Lamar Porter, Silas Schweitzer and
   Tina Schweitzer enjoy cake and coffee on Christmas Day 2023. The
   Schweitzers hosted Porter for the holiday as part of Operation Good Cheer.

  Europe

   German families open homes to US soldiers for Christmas in revival of
   beloved tradition

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

Editors' Picks

     * [IMG]

    Retreat for veterans and Gold Star families grows under Military Bowl
    support

     * New military recruits are sworn into their respective branches during
       a ceremony at the New York Jets "Salute to Service" pre-game
       activities at MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J. on Nov. 6,
       2023. A a new Rand Corp. report released Dec. 14 found that a majority
       of Americans would discourage young people they know from joining the
       military.

    Americans less likely to urge young adults to enlist in military, study
    finds

     * [IMG]

    K-Town Now features the latest news from the Kaiserslautern Military
    Community

Video Spotlight

   [OBJ]
   Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Facebook

follow us

Explore

     * COVID COVID
     * Archive photo of the day Archive photo of the day
     * Pacific Storm Tracker Pacific Storm Tracker
     * Opinion Opinion
     * Today's ePaper Today's ePaper
     * Contingency Edition Contingency Edition
     * Weekly Comics Weekly Comics
     * Special Publications Special Publications

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

Publications

   Stripes Europe Stripes Europe Best of the Pacific Best of the Pacific
   Welcome to the Pacific Welcome to the Pacific Best of Germany Best of
   Germany Transition Guide Transition Guide What's Up What's Up
   View All Publications >gt;

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

Events

                          Sign Up for Daily Headlines

   Sign up to receive a daily email of today's top military news stories from
   Stars and Stripes and top news outlets from around the world.

   Sign Up Now

   IFrame
   IFrame
   Stars and Stripes
   Subscribe Login
     * [ ] Our Mission

Our Mission
Our Mission

       [ ] Our History

Our History
Our History

       [ ] Help

Help
Help

          * Contact Us
          * Staff Directory
          * Advertise with us
          * FAQs
          * Member Services
          * Archive Services
          * Reprint Permissions
          * Disclaimer
          * Privacy Policy
          * RSS Feeds
     * [ ] Theaters

Theaters
Theaters

          * Today's Theaters News
          * U.S.
          * Middle East
          * Europe
          * Asia-Pacific
          * Americas
          * Africa
       [ ] Branches

Branches
Branches

          * Today's Branches News
          * Army
          * Marine Corps
          * Navy
          * Air Force
          * Coast Guard
          * Space Force
          * Promotions
     * [ ] Veterans

Veterans
Veterans

          * Today's Veterans News
          * Map of Memorials
          * News
          * VA Loans
          * Jobs
          * Obituaries
       [ ] History

History
History

          * Today's History News
          * Archive photo of the day
       [ ] Sports

Sports
Sports

          * Today's Sports
          * Europe
          * Pacific
          * U.S.
     * [ ] Living

Living
Living

          * Today's Living News
          * Events
          * Entertainment
          * Europe Travel
          * Pacific Travel
          * The Meat and Potatoes of Life
          * U.S. Travel
     * [ ] Multimedia

Multimedia
Multimedia

          * Podcasts
          * Out of Uniform
          * Videos
       [ ] Get Stripes

Get Stripes
Get Stripes

          * Subscribe
          * ePaper
          * Stripes Lite
          * Archives/Library
          * Special Publications
          * Mobile Apps
          * Email Newsletters
          * Digital Access
          * Home Delivery
     * [ ] Opinion

Opinion
Opinion

       [ ] Storm Tracker

Storm Tracker
Storm Tracker

       [ ] Promotions

Promotions
Promotions

          * Promotion Rules
     * [ ] Today's ePAPER

Today's ePAPER
Today's ePAPER

       [IMG]
     * [ ] Our Other Websites

Our Other Websites
Our Other Websites

          * Stripes Japan
          * Stripes Europe
          * Stripes Korea
          * Stripes Okinawa
          * Stripes Guam
          * In Memoriam
          * Month of the Military Child
          * Best of Germany
          * Best of Pacific
          * Letters to Santa
          * Pen Pal
          * Printshop
          * eStore
   Back to top
     * © 2023 Stars and Stripes. All Rights Reserved.
     * |
     * Disclaimer
     * |
     * Web Notices and Privacy Policy
     * |
     * Accessibility / Section 508
</text>
</page>§
<page='en_ukraine-18'>
<text>
   Link: canonical
   Link: amphtml
   analytics

Accessibility links

     * Skip to main content
     * Skip to main Navigation
     * Skip to Search

   Next
   Close Previous Next
   please wait
   Link has been copied to clipboard
   [ ] Regions
     * [ ] Russia 
       Russia Tatar-Bashkir North Caucasus
     * Iran
     * [ ] Central Asia 
       Kazakhstan Kyrgyzstan Tajikistan Turkmenistan Uzbekistan
     * [ ] South Asia 
       Afghanistan Pakistan
     * [ ] Caucasus 
       Armenia Azerbaijan Georgia
     * [ ] Central/SE Europe 
       Bosnia Bulgaria Hungary Kosovo Moldova Montenegro North Macedonia
       Romania Serbia
     * [ ] East Europe 
       Belarus Ukraine
     * Visuals
     * [ ] Investigations 
       RFE/RL Investigates Schemes
     * [ ] Newsletters 
       Wider Europe by Rikard Jozwiak China In Eurasia by Reid Standish Steve
       Gutterman's Week In Russia The Azadi Briefing
     * [ ] Podcasts 
       Talking China In Eurasia The Week Ahead In Russia Majlis
     * Current Time
     * Share Tips Securely
     * Bypass Blocking
     * Contact Us
     * About
     * Pressroom
   Subscribe

      Follow Us

   All RFE/RL sites
   [ ] 
   Search _____________________ [ Submit ]
   site logo site logo
   Search _____________________ [ Submit ]
   site logo site logo
   Previous Next
   [ ] Breaking News  

                                      News

   November 24, 2023
     * By RFE/RL's Siberia.Realities

   Russian Gets False Death Certificate To Avoid Returning To War In Ukraine

   Zorigto Arabzhayev was mobilized and sent to Ukraine in November 2022 and
   returned on leave in the spring. (illustrative photo)
   Zorigto Arabzhayev was mobilized and sent to Ukraine in November 2022 and
   returned on leave in the spring. (illustrative photo)
   [ ]
   [ Submit ] [ Submit ]

   A man from the Siberian region of Buryatia was sentenced to five years in
   prison after it turned out that he attempted to avoid returning to the war
   in Ukraine by acquiring a false death certificate, RFE/RL has learned.
   Zorigto Arabzhayev was mobilized and sent to Ukraine in November 2022 and
   returned on leave in the spring. When military officials came to his home
   after he failed to return to his unit, his son told them he had died and
   showed them a death certificate that turned out to be fake upon further
   investigation. Arabzhayev was subsequently arrested. To read the original
   story by RFE/RL's Siberia.Realities, click here.

   Read more
     *  
     *  
     *  
     *  
     * * _____________________ [ text ]
     * More News

   December 26, 2023
     * By RFE/RL's Azerbaijani Service

                      Azerbaijan Expels 2 French Diplomats

   Two employees of the French Embassy in Baku were ordered to leave the
   country within 48 hours. (file photo)
   Two employees of the French Embassy in Baku were ordered to leave the
   country within 48 hours. (file photo)
   [ ]
   [ Submit ] [ Submit ]

   Azerbaijan's Foreign Ministry has ordered the expulsion of two French
   diplomats due to "activities incompatible with their diplomatic status."
   The ministry said in a December 26 statement that it had summoned the
   French ambassador to express a "strong protest over the actions of two
   employees of the French Embassy." The two were ordered to leave within 48
   hours. There was no immediate reaction from Paris to the move, and it
   wasn't immediately clear what prompted it, Tensions between the two
   countries have climbed in recent years, as France has stepped up support
   for neighboring Armenia, and escalated its criticism of Baku. To read the
   original story by RFE/RL's Azerbaijani Service, click here.

   Read more
     *  
     *  
     *  
     *  
     * * _____________________ [ text ]
     * December 26, 2023
     * By RFE/RL's Romanian Service

                      Fire At Romanian Guesthouse Kills 5

   The deadly blaze engulfed the guesthouse about 90 kilometers north of
   Bucharest.
   The deadly blaze engulfed the guesthouse about 90 kilometers north of
   Bucharest.
   [ ]
   [ Submit ] [ Submit ]

   A fire ripped through a Romanian guesthouse in a village north of
   Bucharest, killing at least five people. Rescuers on December 26 were
   searching the charred ruins of the building for another five missing
   people. Authorities said 18 people managed to escape the blaze, and two
   were being treated for burns. There was no indication as to what caused
   the blaze, though authorities said the building did not appear to have a
   fire inspection permit. To read the original story by RFE/RL's Romanian
   Service, click here.

   Read more
     *  
     *  
     *  
     *  
     * * _____________________ [ text ]
     * Updated December 26, 2023
     * By RFE/RL

        Kremlin Critic Aleksei Navalny Confirms Arrival At Arctic Prison

   Jailed Russian opposition leader Aleksei Navalny (file photo)
   Jailed Russian opposition leader Aleksei Navalny (file photo)
   [ ]
   [ Submit ] [ Submit ]

   Kremlin critic Aleksei Navalny has published his first message from the
   Arctic prison he has been transferred to, telling his followers on X,
   formerly Twitter, not to worry about him after an absence of more than two
   weeks that raised concerns about his well-being.

   “I'm totally relieved that I've finally made it,” Navalny said in a series
   of posts on December 26 from the prison in the village of Kharp in the
   Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous District. “Thanks again to everyone for your
   support. And happy holidays!”

   Navalny joked that he is “still in a good mood, as befits a Santa Claus.”
   He said he now has a sheepskin coat and a fur hat with flaps to cover his
   ears and expects to receive winter footwear. He also said he grew a beard
   during his transfer, which he said lasted 20 days and was “quite tiring.”

   “They brought me on Saturday evening (December 23). And they transported
   me with such precautions and on such a strange route…that I did not expect
   anyone to find me here before mid-January,” he said.

   He also said he was “very surprised” on December 25 when his lawyer
   arrived to see him. He also described some of the conditions in the
   prison, saying he “went for a walk” to a neighboring cell that was a “bit
   bigger with snow on the ground.” He added that from his cell window he can
   only see a fence that is very close.

   Navalny was transported to the Arctic prison from a prison in the Vladimir
   region about 240 kilometers east of Moscow. The Kremlin critic was
   sentenced to 19 years in prison in August on extremism charges, on top of
   previous sentences for fraud. He says the charges are politically
   motivated, and human rights organizations have recognized him as a
   political prisoner.

   Navalny’s associates reported on December 25 that he was in penal colony
   No. 3 in Kharp and that his lawyer had visited him.

   The so-called Polar Wolf colony is one of the most remote, said Ivan
   Zhdanov on X, formerly Twitter, on December 25.

   “The conditions there are harsh, with a special regime in the permafrost
   zone. It is very difficult to get there, and there are no letter delivery
   systems,” said Zhdanov.

   5 Things To Know About Russian Opposition Leader Aleksei Navalny
   please wait
   Embed share 

      5 Things To Know About Russian Opposition Leader Aleksei Navalny

   Embed share 
   The code has been copied to your clipboard.
   _____________________

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

   width _____________________ px height _____________________ px
     * Share on Facebook  
     * Share on Twitter  
     * * --------------------------------------------------------------------

   The URL has been copied to your clipboard
   _____________________

   No media source currently available

   0:00 0:01:33  0:00

   Kira Yarmysh, spokeswoman for Navalny said on CNN that Navalny and his
   team, including many who have fled the country amid pressure from Russian
   authorities, will continue their work because they believe it’s something
   Russia needs.

   “Russia is repressed by a dictator,” she said. Navalny “knows he needs to
   keep going.”

   Navalny has posed one of the most serious threats to Russian President
   Vladimir Putin, who recently announced he is running for reelection in
   March.

   Putin is expected to comfortably win the election amid the continued
   sidelining of opponents and a clampdown on opposition and civil society
   that intensified after Russia invaded Ukraine in February 2022.

   Navalny survived a poisoning with a Novichok-type nerve agent in 2020 that
   he says was ordered by Putin. The Kremlin has denied any role in Navalny's
   poisoning.

   Read more
     *  
     *  
     *  
     *  
     * * _____________________ [ text ]
     * Updated December 26, 2023
     * By RFE/RL's Crimea.Realities

    Ukrainian Air Force Claims Destruction Of Russian Ship In Crimea; Moscow
                            Confirms Missile Strike

   Ukraine Strikes Major Naval Port In Russian-Occupied Crimea
   please wait
   Embed share 

      Ukraine Strikes Major Naval Port In Russian-Occupied Crimea

   Embed share 
   The code has been copied to your clipboard.
   _____________________

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

   width _____________________ px height _____________________ px
     * Share on Facebook  
     * Share on Twitter  
     * * --------------------------------------------------------------------

   The URL has been copied to your clipboard
   _____________________

   No media source currently available

   0:00 0:01:12  0:00
   [ ]
   [ Submit ] [ Submit ]

   FEODOSIA, Ukraine -- Ukraine's air force hit a major naval port on the
   Russian-occupied Crimean Peninsula, and claimed a Russian naval landing
   ship docked there was destroyed.

   Ukraine’s military said in a post to Telegram on December 26 that tactical
   aviation units fired cruise missiles at the port of Feodosia, on the
   eastern side of the Black Sea peninsula, around 3 a.m. local time, hitting
   the ship, the Novocherkassk.

   Explosions reverberated throughout the city, waking up residents, setting
   off car alarms, and breaking storefront and building windows some distance
   away from the port.

   The commander of Ukraine’s air force, Lieutenant General Mykola Oleshchuk,
   said in a post on Telegram that “Russia’s naval fleet is getting smaller,”
   and suggested that Ukrainian jets were involved, but gave no other
   details.

   “We saw how powerful the explosion and detonation were," Colonel Yuriy
   Ihnat, an air force spokesman, told RFE/RL's Ukrainian Service. "It’s
   extremely difficult for a ship to survive something like that."

   Ukraine Says It Destroyed Russian Naval Ship In Occupied Crimea Ukraine
   Says It Destroyed Russian Naval Ship In Occupied Crimea  Photo Gallery:

    Ukraine Says It Destroyed Russian Naval Ship In Occupied Crimea

     * RFE/RL
     * RFE/RL's Crimea.Realities
     * Reuters
   Kyiv claimed on December 26 that it had destroyed the Novocherkassk, a
   Russian naval landing ship, in what appears to be one of the most
   significant strikes against the Black Sea Fleet in months.
     * Share on Facebook
     * Share on Twitter
     * Share on В Контакте
     * Email to a Friend
     * Share on LinkedIn
     * _____________________ [ text ]
     * Russia’s Defense Ministry confirmed that the Novocherkassk had been
   damaged by a Ukrainian missile, but gave no other information. The Kremlin
   said that Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu had briefed President Vladimir
   Putin on the strike, a possible indication of the seriousness of the
   attack.

   “An enemy attack was carried out in the Feodosia area. The port area is
   cordoned off. At this moment, explosions have stopped and the fire has
   been contained,” Sergei Aksyonov, the Russian-backed governor of the
   Crimea region, said in a post to Telegram.

   He said one person was killed, and two others wounded in the attack. He
   gave no further information.

   Unverified photos and videos showed fireballs climbing into the night sky,
   accompanied by an enormous shockwave. Photographs taken by a correspondent
   for Crimea Realities, a regional desk of RFE/RL’s Ukrainian Service,
   showed broken windows on several buildings along the city’s waterfront
   embankment.

   If confirmed, the destruction of the Novocherkassk would be the latest
   embarrassing blow to Russia’s Black Sea fleet, which had been forced to
   curtail some of its operations in and around Crimea after a series of
   strikes by missiles and maritime drones.

   Russia's Growing List Of Naval Losses Russia's Growing List Of Naval
   Losses  Photo Gallery:

    Russia's Growing List Of Naval Losses

     * RFE/RL
   A strike on a brand-new Russian warship in Crimea on November 4 is the
   latest in a string of attacks that have hobbled Moscow's naval capacity
   since February 2022.
     * Share on Facebook
     * Share on Twitter
     * Share on В Контакте
     * Email to a Friend
     * Share on LinkedIn
     * _____________________ [ text ]
     * It would also be the second time that the ship was damaged in a
   Ukrainian strike. In March 2022, about a month after the start of Russia’s
   full-scale invasion, Ukrainian forces hit the port of Berdyansk, on the
   Sea of Azov, sinking another landing ship, the Saratov, and damaging the
   Novocherkassk.

   In September, Ukraine used British-supplied cruise missiles to hit another
   Russian landing ship and a submarine undergoing repairs a dry dock
   facility near Sevastopol, a major port on the western side of the
   peninsula. Both ships were believed to be heavily damaged, as was the dry
   dock.

   Smoke rises from a shipyard that was hit by a Ukrainian missile attack in
   Sevastopol on September 13. Smoke rises from a shipyard that was hit by a
   Ukrainian missile attack in Sevastopol on September 13.
   SEE ALSO:

    Russia's Navy Has A Dry Dock Problem. Again.

   That, plus another missile strike on a Black Sea naval headquarters
   building, forced the Russian fleet to pull back many of its ships, to port
   further away.

   The flagship of the Russian Black Sea Navy, the Moskva, sank in April
   2022, after being hit by a Ukrainian anti-ship missile, killing an unknown
   number of sailors. The ship’s loss was a major victory for Ukraine, which
   has lost control of much of its Black Sea coastline over the course of the
   Russian invasion.

   Elsewhere, Russia’s military claimed the capture of the eastern town of
   Maryinka, which would potentially open up a new corridor for advancing in
   the Donetsk region. Shoigu was shown in a televised meeting on December 25
   telling Putin about the town’s purported capture.

   Kyiv, however, disputed the claim, saying its troops had repelled three
   “unsuccessful attacks” near the ruined and nearly deserted community.

   If Russia's claims about taking the town are confirmed, it would be one of
   Moscow's most significant battlefield gains since May.

   The fighting came as Ukraine for the first time celebrated Christmas on
   December 25, as the Roman Catholic Church and Protestant denominations do,
   instead of on the traditional Orthodox Christian date of January 7.

   A building in Feodosia after the Crimean port was hit in a Ukrainian
   missile strike on December 26. A building in Feodosia after the Crimean
   port was hit in a Ukrainian missile strike on December 26.
   SEE ALSO:

    Live Briefing: Russia Invades Ukraine

   Zelenskiy signed a law in July moving the official holiday as a way to
   “abandon Russian heritage” following Moscow's February 2022 invasion.

   The switch brings Ukraine's Orthodox worshippers in line with the
   country's Catholics, who have a much smaller presence in the country’s
   spiritual life compared with Orthodox Christians.

   Ukraine also claimed on December 25 that it had downed another two Russian
   jets, one near the occupied Azov port of Mariupol. There was no
   confirmation of the downing, which followed earlier reports of three
   Russian warplanes being shot down.

   Ukraine also announced that it had received $1.34 billion in financing,
   mostly through the World Bank -- funds that will be partially used to
   compensate social programs for monies lost to security and defense
   financial needs.

        With reporting by RFE/RL’s Ukrainian Service and Reuters

        NOTE: The lead image for this article has been changed. The earlier
        photo was of a Ukrainian attack on Crimea earlier this year.

   Read more
     *  
     *  
     *  
     *  
     * * _____________________ [ text ]
     * December 25, 2023
     * By RFE/RL's Armenian Service

Armenia’s Pashinian Vows To Focus On Economics, Not Politics As Chair Of Eurasia
                                Grouping In 2024

   Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pashinian (file photo)
   Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pashinian (file photo)
   [ ]
   [ Submit ] [ Submit ]

   Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pashinian said on December 25 that he plans
   to put economic cooperation ahead of any “political ambitions” of members
   when he assumes the rotating chairmanship of the Russia-led Eurasian
   Economic Union (EAES) in 2024. Armenia’s normally tight relations with
   Moscow have frayed in recent years after a series of disagreements,
   including Yerevan’s criticism of Russia for what it saw as a lack of
   support as rival Azerbaijan retook the ethnic-Armenian populated breakaway
   region of Nagorno-Karabakh this year. Pashinian was speaking in St.
   Petersburg, where he attended a council meeting of the EAES, which also
   includes Kazakhstan, Belarus, and Kyrgyzstan. To read the original story
   by RFE/RL’s Armenian Service, click here.

   Read more
     *  
     *  
     *  
     *  
     * * _____________________ [ text ]
     * December 25, 2023
     * By Reuters

            Ukraine Seeks To Terminate Free Trade Deal With Belarus

   The Ukraine government has put the proposal to end the free trade deal
   with Belarus before the country's parliament. (file photo)
   The Ukraine government has put the proposal to end the free trade deal
   with Belarus before the country's parliament. (file photo)
   [ ]
   [ Submit ] [ Submit ]

   Ukraine's government has proposed to parliament terminating a free trade
   agreement with Belarus, which supports Russia's invasion of Ukraine that
   began in February 2022, cabinet minister Taras Melnychuk said on December
   25. The move to cancel the agreement was taken "in connection with a
   fundamental change of circumstances...the involvement of the Republic of
   Belarus in the illegal use of force against Ukraine," he said. The
   government proposes terminating the free trade agreement of December 1992
   and two protocols related to the treaty. After Russia's invasion, Ukraine
   suspended its trade relations with Minsk.

   Read more
     *  
     *  
     *  
     *  
     * * _____________________ [ text ]
     * Updated December 25, 2023
     * By RFE/RL's Radio Farda

   Israeli Air Strike In Syria Kills Commander Of Iran's Revolutionary Guard

   Razi Mousavi was a senior adviser in Iran’s Revolutionary Guards Corps.
   Razi Mousavi was a senior adviser in Iran’s Revolutionary Guards Corps.
   [ ]
   [ Submit ] [ Submit ]

   An Israeli air strike in Syria killed a top commander of Iran’s Islamic
   Revolutionary Guards Corps (IRGC), prompting Tehran to threaten that
   Israeli will “certainly pay” for its actions.

   Iranian state media on December 25 identified the commander as Razi
   Mousavi, a senior adviser of the IRGC Quds Force, saying he had been
   killed in an air strike near the Syrian capital, Damascus.

   Full details of the attack were not disclosed, although Iran’s official
   IRNA news agency reported it took place in the Zeinabiyah district in the
   Damascus suburbs.

   Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi said in a statement that Israel "will
   certainly pay for this crime."

   Reuters quoted three sources as saying that Mousavi was responsible for
   military coordination between Tehran and Damascus as part of the IRGC's
   Quds Force.

   The Tasnim news agency, which is close to the IRGC, said Mousavi was one
   of the oldest advisers of the force in Syria and "an associate" of Qasem
   Soleimani, a former Quds commander who was killed in January 2020 in an
   air strike by U.S. forces near Baghdad. The United States held Soleimani
   responsible for the deaths of many of its soldiers in Iraq.

   The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said Israel targeted Mousavi at a
   farm in the area that reportedly housed several offices for the
   Lebanon-based Hizballah extremist group. Israeli forces have been
   exchanging intensified gunfire with Hizballah fighters along the Lebanese
   border in recent months.

   Israel did not immediately comment on the attack, but it has consistently
   vowed that Iran will not be allowed to establish a presence in Syria.
   President Bashar al-Assad of Syria is a close ally of Iran and Russia,
   relying on their support to remain in power despite major opposition and a
   civil war in the country.

   In early December, Israel said its air strikes had killed two IRGC members
   in Syria who had served as military advisers there, also prompting vows of
   revenge by Tehran.

   A U.S. State Department report this month said Iran remained the leading
   state sponsor of global terrorism last year, involved in backing terrorist
   recruitment, financing, and plotting across Africa, Asia, Europe, and the
   Americas.

   The report said Tehran also provided support to extremist groups in
   Bahrain, Iraq, and Syria through its Quds Force with the aim of creating
   instability in the region.

        With reporting by AP and Reuters

   Read more
     *  
     *  
     *  
     *  
     * * _____________________ [ text ]
     * December 25, 2023
     * By Reuters

    Foreign Shareholders Freeze Participation In Russia's Arctic LNG 2, Says
                                   Kommersant

   Wellhead equipment at a resource base for the Arctic LNG 2 project
   Russia's Gydan Peninsula on the Kara Sea. (filephoto)
   Wellhead equipment at a resource base for the Arctic LNG 2 project
   Russia's Gydan Peninsula on the Kara Sea. (filephoto)
   [ ]
   [ Submit ] [ Submit ]

   Foreign shareholders suspended participation in the Arctic LNG 2 project
   due to sanctions, renouncing their responsibilities for financing and for
   offtake contracts for the new Russian liquefied natural gas (LNG) plant,
   the daily Kommersant reported on December 25. The project, seen as a key
   element in Russia's drive to boost its LNG global market share to 20
   percent by 2030 from 8 percent, was already facing difficulties due to
   U.S. sanctions over the conflict in Ukraine and a lack of gas carriers.
   The newspaper said the suspension may lead to Arctic LNG 2 losing its
   long-term contracts on LNG supplies.

   Read more
     *  
     *  
     *  
     *  
     * * _____________________ [ text ]
     * Updated December 25, 2023
     * By Current Time

 'Highest Possible Level Of Isolation': Kremlin Critic Navalny Moved To Arctic
                                  Penal Colony

   Jailed Russian opposition activist Aleksei Navalny gestures during a court
   hearing in Moscow in February 2021.
   Jailed Russian opposition activist Aleksei Navalny gestures during a court
   hearing in Moscow in February 2021.
   [ ]
   [ Submit ] [ Submit ]

   Imprisoned Russian opposition politician Aleksei Navalny, whose
   whereabouts had been unknown since early December, has been moved to a
   penal colony in the brutally cold Arctic region, his spokeswoman said
   December 25.

   "We have found Aleksei Navalny. He is now in [penal colony]-3 in the
   settlement of Kharp in the Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous District. His lawyer
   visited him today. Aleksei is doing well," Kira Yarmysh announced on
   social media platform X.

   The remote region, which spans the Arctic Circle, is known for its brutal
   winters and includes the former Soviet prison-camp city of Vorkuta, which
   is Europe’s easternmost and coldest town, about 100 kilometers from the
   Kharp site.

   “It is almost impossible to get to this colony; it is almost impossible to
   even send letters there,” Leonid Volkov, Navalny’s chief strategist, wrote
   on social media.

   "This is the highest possible level of isolation from the world, which is
   what it was all about," he added.

   It was Navalny’s longest absence since he was taken into captivity in
   January 2021 after returning to Russia from Germany, where he underwent
   treatment for a near-fatal nerve-agent poisoning that he believes was
   carried out by Russian security operatives at the behest of authoritarian
   President Vladimir Putin.

   Navalny’s supporters have launched an Internet campaign using the hashtag
   #WhereIsNavalny.

   The United States on December 25 said it welcomed that the 47-year-old
   Kremlin critic had been located but added it remained "deeply concerned"
   about his safety and detention conditions.

   A spokesperson said Washington joined the activist's family and supporters
   "in calling for his immediate release, without conditions."

   "We call on the Russian government to end its escalating repression of
   independent voices in Russia," the spokesperson added.

   Council of Europe Secretary General Marija Pejcinovic Buric wrote on X
   that she had “serious concerns” about Navalny and called for his release
   “in line with relevant judgements of the European Court of Human Rights.”

   Prison officials had said Navalny was no longer in the Vladimir region
   prison where he had been serving a 19-year term but had refused to say
   where he is. In a statement on December 12, the Federal Penitentiary
   Service (FSIN) said only that Navalny had left “for a penal institution
   outside the borders of Vladimir Oblast.”

   5 Things To Know About Russian Opposition Leader Aleksei Navalny
   please wait
   Embed share 

      5 Things To Know About Russian Opposition Leader Aleksei Navalny

   Embed share 
   The code has been copied to your clipboard.
   _____________________

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

   width _____________________ px height _____________________ px
     * Share on Facebook  
     * Share on Twitter  
     * * --------------------------------------------------------------------

   The URL has been copied to your clipboard
   _____________________

   No media source currently available

   0:00 0:01:33  0:00

   The process of transferring convicts in Russia, known as "etap," involves
   "vagonzaks" -- trains specifically designed for prisoners.

   Such trains have caged compartments for prisoners, who are provided with
   little fresh air, no showers, and only limited access to food or a toilet.

   The transfers can take days, weeks, or even months as the trains stop and
   convicts spend time in transit prisons. Convicts almost always face
   humiliation, beatings, and sometimes even death at the hands of their
   guards or other convicts.

   Harsh rules dating back to Soviet times provide for the prisoners'
   families and lawyers being informed about their whereabouts only after
   they have reached their destination.

   Earlier this month, two courts in the Vladimir region have postponed
   hearings into complaints filed by Navalny pending information on his
   whereabouts.

   Navalny had complained of a concerted campaign of harassment and
   mistreatment since his imprisonment, including sleep deprivation, repeated
   stints in punishment cells for minor alleged infractions, and a lack of
   medical care.

   He has been recognized as a prisoner of conscience by Amnesty
   International and listed as a political prisoner by Russia’s banned
   Memorial human-rights group.

        With reporting by AP, Reuters, and AFP

   Read more
     *  
     *  
     *  
     *  
     * * _____________________ [ text ]
     * December 25, 2023
     * By dpa

        Latvia Gives Ukraine 270 Vehicles Confiscated From Drunk Drivers

   Ukrainian citizens are in urgent need of vehicles in order to flee from
   areas particularly affected by the war.
   Ukrainian citizens are in urgent need of vehicles in order to flee from
   areas particularly affected by the war.
   [ ]
   [ Submit ] [ Submit ]

   Latvia has given Ukraine more than 270 vehicles confiscated from drunk
   drivers this year. The vehicles have a total value of nearly $1.1 million,
   the Latvian news portal Delfi reported on December 25. In February, the
   Latvian parliament decided that confiscated vehicles should be handed over
   to Ukraine for free. As a result of Russian air strikes and fighting in
   Ukraine since Moscow's invasion in early 2022, civilian cars are regularly
   damaged or destroyed. Ukrainian citizens are in urgent need of vehicles in
   order to flee from areas particularly affected by the war.

   Read more
     *  
     *  
     *  
     *  
     * * _____________________ [ text ]
     * December 25, 2023
     * By Reuters

    Iran Says It Will Seek Release Of Ex-Official Jailed By Sweden For Mass
                                   Executions

   Last week, a Swedish appeals court upheld the guilty verdict and life
   sentence given to former Iranian official Hamid Noury for murder and
   serious crimes against international law. (file photo)
   Last week, a Swedish appeals court upheld the guilty verdict and life
   sentence given to former Iranian official Hamid Noury for murder and
   serious crimes against international law. (file photo)
   [ ]
   [ Submit ] [ Submit ]

   Iran said on December 25 that it would continue efforts to gain the
   release of a former Iranian official sentenced in Sweden to life in prison
   for his part in a mass execution of political prisoners in Iran. "This
   unjust and outrageous ruling does not end Iran's diplomatic efforts to
   repatriate and free this Iranian citizen, and we will use all legal and
   available means," Foreign Ministry spokesperson Nasser Kanaani said,
   without providing details. Last week, a Swedish appeals court upheld the
   guilty verdict and life sentence for murder and serious crimes against
   international law for the former Iranian official Hamid Noury.

   Read more
     *  
     *  
     *  
     *  
     * * _____________________ [ text ]
     * Updated December 25, 2023
     * By RFE/RL's Ukrainian Service

 Ukraine Received $1.34 Billion Under World Bank Project, Says Finance Ministry

   The Ukrainian Finance Ministry said the funds would be used for
   non-security and defense-related expenditures, such as old-age social
   payments and payments to employees of the state emergency service.
   The Ukrainian Finance Ministry said the funds would be used for
   non-security and defense-related expenditures, such as old-age social
   payments and payments to employees of the state emergency service.
   [ ]
   [ Submit ] [ Submit ]

   Ukraine's Finance Ministry said on December 25 that the country received
   $1.34 billion under the World Bank's public expenditures package. It said
   the financing consisted of a $1.086 billion loan from the World Bank, a
   $190 million grant from Norway, a $50 million grant from the United
   States, and a $20 million grant from Switzerland. The ministry said funds
   would be used to partially compensate for nonsecurity and defense-related
   expenditures of the Ukrainian state budget, including pension payments.
   "International financial assistance is a significant contribution to
   maintaining the financial and economic stability of Ukraine and allows us
   to ensure priority social expenditures during the war," Finance Minister
   Serhiy Marchenko said. To read the original story by RFE/RL's Ukrainian
   Service, click here.

   Read more
     *  
     *  
     *  
     *  
     * * _____________________ [ text ]
     * December 25, 2023
     * By AFP

        Iran Rejects U.S. Claims That Tehran Targeted A Tanker Off India

   The motor vessel Chem Pluto that was attacked is a Liberia-flagged,
   Japanese-owned, and Netherlands-operated chemical tanker, according to the
   Pentagon. (file photo)
   The motor vessel Chem Pluto that was attacked is a Liberia-flagged,
   Japanese-owned, and Netherlands-operated chemical tanker, according to the
   Pentagon. (file photo)
   [ ]
   [ Submit ] [ Submit ]

   Iran's Foreign Ministry has rejected on Washington's claims that a drone
   attack targeting a tanker off the coast of India was "fired from Iran.”
   The December 23 targeting of the Japanese-owned Chem Pluto chemical tanker
   came amid a flurry of drone and missile attacks by Yemen's Iran-backed
   Huthi rebels in the Red Sea in solidarity with Palestinians in Gaza, where
   Israel is battling militants from Hamas, a group designated as a terrorist
   organization by Washington and the EU. The Pentagon later openly accused
   Tehran of the attack. "We declare these claims as completely rejected and
   worthless," Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Nasser Kanani said on
   December 25 when asked about the U.S. accusations.

   Read more
     *  
     *  
     *  
     *  
     * * _____________________ [ text ]
     * December 25, 2023
     * By AP

      Pakistani Police Free 290 Baluch Activists Arrested While Protesting
                             Extrajudicial Killings

   Baluch activists had traveled 1,600 kilometers to protest forced
   disappearances and extrajudicial killings in Pakistan's militancy-ravaged
   southwest.
   Baluch activists had traveled 1,600 kilometers to protest forced
   disappearances and extrajudicial killings in Pakistan's militancy-ravaged
   southwest.
   [ ]
   [ Submit ] [ Submit ]

   Pakistani police on December 25 freed 290 Baluch activists who were
   arrested when they attempted to hold a protest last week in the capital,
   Islamabad. Their release came days after protest organizers gave
   authorities a deadline to release all those detained. The activists had
   traveled 1,600 kilometers on December 21 from Turbat, a town in
   Balochistan Province, to protest forced disappearances and extrajudicial
   killings in the militancy-ravaged southwest. The protesters were mostly
   women and some had brought along their children, aged 7-12, when security
   forces used batons and water canons to disperse and arrest them.

   Read more
     *  
     *  
     *  
     *  
     * * _____________________ [ text ]
     * Updated December 25, 2023
     * By RFE/RL's Balkan Service

  Student Groups End Belgrade Street Blockade After Eighth Night Of Opposition
                                    Protests

   People take part in an opposition march in Belgrade on December 25.
   People take part in an opposition march in Belgrade on December 25.
   [ ]
   [ Submit ] [ Submit ]

   BELGRADE -- Student groups ended their seven-hour blockade of central
   Belgrade streets without major incidents after they had joined angry
   opposition supporters on December 25 in protests against alleged fraud in
   elections last weekend.

   Student leaders demanded that the authorities grant access to voter lists
   to verify the eligibility of participants in the December 17 elections
   after domestic and European organizations observers expressed doubts about
   the validity of many ballots.

   Many of the Belgrade students -- joined by students from Novi Sad
   University -- left the blockade after about seven hours and joined the
   main protests.

   Student leaders said they did not expect their street blockades to be
   repeated on December 26, but opposition leaders said they planned to
   returm to the streets for a ninth night of protests.

   Many of the protesters concluded their actions in front of the Belgrade
   city police department headquarters. Local media reported that some
   students had been arrested, but information remained scarce.

   Miroslav Aleksic, a leader of the opposition coalition, thanked students
   for aiding their efforts.

   Serbian Students Play Football, Read Books On Belgrade Streets As Election
   Protests Continue
   please wait
   Embed share 

      Serbian Students Play Football, Read Books On Belgrade Streets As Election
      Protests Continue

   Embed share 
   The code has been copied to your clipboard.
   _____________________

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

   width _____________________ px height _____________________ px
     * Share on Facebook  
     * Share on Twitter  
     * * --------------------------------------------------------------------

   The URL has been copied to your clipboard
   _____________________

   No media source currently available

   0:00 0:02:01  0:00

   The opposition groups, led by the pro-Europe Serbia Against Violence
   coalition, claimed that populist President Aleksandar Vucic’s ruling
   Serbian Progressive Party (SNS) had brought in ethnic Serbs from
   Bosnia-Herzegovina and other former Yugoslav republics to vote in Belgrade
   in the parliamentary and local elections, thus handing victory to the SNS.

   Western observers, including the Organization for Security and Cooperation
   in Europe, also assailed the ruling party's grip on media sources and
   intimidation tactics throughout the campaign leading up to election day.

   Vucic and his government have denied allegations of voter irregularities
   and have said the elections were held under democratic conditions.

   In a social media post on December 25, the U.S. ambassador to Belgrade,
   Christopher Hill, wrote: “In the hours and days ahead, Serbia's leaders
   and its citizens should remember: The legitimacy of democratic processes
   depends upon transparency and on the readiness of all parties, winning or
   losing, to respect the will of the people as expressed at the ballot box.”

   Overnight, dozens of people were detained and at least seven police
   officers injured in Belgrade as riot police tried to prevent hundreds of
   the opposition supporters from entering the city council building.

   Some people battled with police outside the city hall, smashing windows,
   breaking doors, and attempting to force their way in.

   Serbian Opposition Alleges Provocation As Postelection Protest Turns
   Violent
   please wait
   Embed share 

      Serbian Opposition Alleges Provocation As Postelection Protest Turns
      Violent

   Embed share 
   The code has been copied to your clipboard.
   _____________________

     ----------------------------------------------------------------------

   width _____________________ px height _____________________ px
     * Share on Facebook  
     * Share on Twitter  
     * * --------------------------------------------------------------------

   The URL has been copied to your clipboard
   _____________________

   No media source currently available

   0:00 0:00:58  0:00

   Opposition leaders later alleged that violence at the demonstrations had
   been perpetrated by “hooligans sent by the authorities.” It was not
   possible to immediately verify the claims.

   Vucic called the protest an attempt to overthrow the government instigated
   from abroad. The president said more than 35 people were arrested and more
   detentions would follow.

   “This was an attempted violent takeover of state institutions,” Vucic told
   the pro-government Pink TV late on December 24, adding that there was
   evidence that "everything was prepared in advance.”

   Vucic called the demonstrators “thugs” who would not succeed in
   destabilizing the country. He suggested that the unrest was orchestrated
   from abroad but provided no evidence to support the claim.

   The protest was called by the Serbia Against Violence coalition, which
   rejected the outcome of the December 17 elections following victory claims
   by the SNS.

   International and domestic election observers reported multiple
   irregularities, including cases of bought votes and the stuffing of ballot
   boxes.

   There have been peaceful protests every evening since the vote, with the
   opposition demanding the annulment of election results. The December 24
   protest was the first to turn violent.

   "The whole world has seen the theft that has not been recorded. In
   Belgrade, we won. Belgrade is a free city," opposition politician Srdjan
   Milivojevic of the Democratic Party said at the rally.

   Protesters carried banners and flags of Serbia and the European Union as
   they blew whistles and repeatedly shouted "thieves, thieves" during the
   demonstrations.

   Vucic said the newly elected parliament -- with the SNS in control --
   would be installed in January 2024 and that formation of the government is
   expected at the end of February.

   On December 23, the Serbian Prosecutor's Office said it had launched an
   investigation into the allegations.

   On election night, the Belgrade Electoral Commission reported that the SNS
   won 39.3 percent of the votes in the Belgrade elections, and the Serbia
   Against Violence won 34.3 percent.

   In the nationwide parliamentary vote, officials said that -- based on
   complete but uncertified results -- the SNS received about 46 percent of
   the vote and Serbia Against Violence won 23.5 percent.

   Officials said final results on both parliamentary and local elections in
   Belgrade are still pending and could take months to determine.

        With reporting by AFP and AP

   Read more
     *  
     *  
     *  
     *  
     * * _____________________ [ text ]
     * December 25, 2023
     * By RFE/RL's Russian Service

     Hundreds Gather In Moscow To Support Nationalist Putin Critic Girkin’s
                               Presidential Hopes

   Supporters of imprisoned Russian nationalist Igor Girkin attend a
   conference in Moscow on December 24 to nominate him for the upcoming
   presidential elections in March.
   Supporters of imprisoned Russian nationalist Igor Girkin attend a
   conference in Moscow on December 24 to nominate him for the upcoming
   presidential elections in March.
   [ ]
   [ Submit ] [ Submit ]

   Hundreds of supporters gathered in Moscow on December 24 to back the
   potential presidential candidacy of Igor Girkin (aka Strelkov), once a
   leader of Russia-backed separatists in Ukraine's east who is now jailed.
   Girkin, 52, has been charged with public calls for extremist activities.
   He pleaded not guilty in a trial that began on December 14. He was
   arrested in July after he sharply criticized President Vladimir Putin for
   his “too kind’ handling of the Ukraine invasion, referring to him as a
   “nonentity” and accusing him of “cowardly mediocrity.” He has urged for a
   more-aggressive war against Ukraine and total mobilization for Russia to
   achieve victory. To read the original story by RFE/RL’s Russian Service,
   click here.

   Read more
     *  
     *  
     *  
     *  
     * * _____________________ [ text ]
     * Updated December 25, 2023
     * By RFE/RL's Ukrainian Service

 Ukraine Says Forces Holding Out In Strategic Town Of Maryinka Despite Russian
                                     Claims

   A drone shot shows the remains of Maryinka, a city that has been almost
   completely destroyed amid Russia's invasion of Ukraine. (file photo)
   A drone shot shows the remains of Maryinka, a city that has been almost
   completely destroyed amid Russia's invasion of Ukraine. (file photo)
   [ ]
   [ Submit ] [ Submit ]

   KYIV --Russia on December 25 said its forces had captured the strategic
   Donetsk region town of Maryinka in eastern Ukraine, but Kyiv disputed the
   claim, reporting that its troops had repelled three “unsuccessful attacks”
   near the ruined and nearly deserted community.

  Live Briefing: Russia's Invasion Of Ukraine

   RFE/RL's Live Briefing gives you all of the latest developments on
   Russia's full-scale invasion, Kyiv's counteroffensive, Western military
   aid, global reaction, and the plight of civilians. For all of RFE/RL's
   coverage of the war in Ukraine, click here.

   "It's not correct to talk about seizing Maryinka," Ukrainian military
   spokesman Oleksandr Shtupun told Ukrainian TV following claims made by
   Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu during a televised meeting with
   President Vladimir Putin.

   "The fighting for Maryinka continues,” Shtupun said.

   “Currently, our servicemen are within the administrative borders of
   Maryinka, but the city has been completely destroyed,” he added.

   Maryinka is a relatively small town -- with a prewar population under
   10,000 -- but, according to British intelligence, the Russian military has
   been seeking to capture it in order to advance further west and better
   protect occupied Donetsk city.

   The fighting comes as Ukraine celebrated Christmas on December 25 for the
   first time instead of the traditional January date of past years.

   President Volodymyr Zelenskiy signed a law in July moving the official
   holiday to December 25 from January 7, the day observed by the Russian
   Orthodox Church. The law stated its goal was to “abandon the Russian
   heritage” following Moscow's decision to invade in February 2022.

   The switch brings Ukraine's Orthodox worshippers in line with the
   country's Catholics, who earlier this year approved a similar change in
   calendars.

   Frontline Ukrainian Troops Celebrate First Christmas According To Western
   Calendar Frontline Ukrainian Troops Celebrate First Christmas According To
   Western Calendar  Photo Gallery:

    Frontline Ukrainian Troops Celebrate First Christmas According To Western
    Calendar

     * RFE/RL
     * Reuters
   As Kyiv's forces fight on the front line on December 24 in the Kharkiv
   region, soldiers took time to celebrate Christmas according to the Western
   Calendar. Ukraine is officially celebrating Christmas for the first time
   on December 25 instead of the January date more closely linked to Russia.
     * Share on Facebook
     * Share on Twitter
     * Share on В Контакте
     * Email to a Friend
     * Share on LinkedIn
     * _____________________ [ text ]
     * Ukraine’s military on Christmas Day said its forces shot down dozens
   of Iranian-made Shahed drones and claimed to have blasted another two
   Russian fighter jets from the sky, adding to previous claims of mounting
   success against enemy air assaults.

   Ukrainian military authorities said the jets had been downed late on
   December 24, following reports that the country’s forces had shot down
   three jets in the previous two days, as Kyiv and Moscow exchanged
   unconfirmed claims that enemy warplanes had been downed. It also said 38
   Shahed drones had been shot down.

   One of the Russian jets was downed in the area of occupied Mariupol, a
   Ukrainian official said.

   "It has been confirmed that our anti-aircraft missile system hit an Su-34
   fighter-bomber in the Mariupol sector. It did not return to its airfield,"
   Air Force Commander Mykola Oleshchuk said on Telegram,

   Reports from either side could not immediately be independently verified.

   But they come as Kyiv awaits delivery in the coming days of the
   long-desired first shipment of advanced F-16 fighter jets as Ukraine
   attempts to counter Russia’s air supremacy over occupied territory.

   Meanwhile, Ukrainian military spokesman Shtupun in Ukraine’s Tavria region
   said Russian occupying forces are "increasingly" refusing to take part in
   assault operations at the front lines.

   “There is information about an increasing number of occupiers' refusals to
   participate in assault operations. In particular, this was seen in the
   units of [Russia’s] 1st Army Corps," he said.

   Elsewhere on the battlefield, the Ukrainian military reported the movement
   of Russian tanks in the Mariupol district.

   "Over the weekend, the movement of tanks -- at least five units -- with
   modern modifications was detected through Mariupol in the direction of
   Berdyansk," said Petro Andryushchenko, an adviser to Ukraine’s Mariupol
   mayor.

   Mariupol was occupied by Russian troops in the spring of 2022 after a long
   siege and street fighting. The city was badly damaged. Currently, it is
   located at a considerable distance from the front line, but Ukrainian
   forces periodically launch missile strikes on Russian military facilities
   in Mariupol.

   Ukraine also announced good news on Christmas Day on the economic front,
   saying it had received $1.34 billion in financing, mostly through the
   World Bank -- funds that will be partially used to compensate social
   programs for monies lost to security and defense financial needs.

   The Finance Ministry said the package consisted of a $1.086 billion loan
   from the World Bank, a $190 million grant from Norway, $50 million from
   the United States, and $20 million from Switzerland.

   "International financial assistance is a significant contribution to
   maintaining the financial and economic stability of Ukraine and allows us
   to ensure priority social expenditures during the war," Finance Minister
   Serhiy Marchenko said.

   "Since the beginning of the full-scale invasion, the governments of Japan,
   the United States, Norway, and Switzerland have repeatedly demonstrated
   their unwavering support and solidarity to Ukraine," he added.

        With reporting by Reuters

   Read more
     *  
     *  
     *  
     *  
     * * _____________________ [ text ]
     * Updated December 24, 2023
     * By RFE/RL's Balkan Service

   Thousands Gather In Belgrade To Protest Serbian Election, Demand Annulment

   Serbian opposition leaders trying to enter the Belgrade Assembly during
   the seventh protest demanding the annulment of election results due to
   allegations of election theft on December 24.
   Serbian opposition leaders trying to enter the Belgrade Assembly during
   the seventh protest demanding the annulment of election results due to
   allegations of election theft on December 24.
   [ ]
   [ Submit ] [ Submit ]

   BELGRADE -- Several thousand people gathered for a seventh night in
   central Belgrade to protest what the opposition and many Western observers
   called fraud in the country’s December 17 parliamentary and local
   elections, with some demonstrators attempting to enter the capital’s
   assembly building late in the evening.

   The December 24 protest was called by the pro-Europe Serbia Against
   Violence coalition, which rejected the outcome of the elections following
   victory claims by President Aleksandar Vucic's ruling Serbian Progressive
   Party (SNS).

   "The whole world has seen the theft that has not been recorded. In
   Belgrade, we won. Belgrade is a free city," opposition politician Srdjan
   Milivojevic of the Democratic Party said at the rally.

   Police officers were reportedly inside the assembly building, poised to
   fend off protesters attempting to gain entry into the site, where windows
   had been broken. Police fired tear gas at demonstrators.

   Protesters carried banners and flags of Serbia and the European Union as
   they blew whistles and repeatedly shouted "Thieves, thieves!" during the
   protests.

   Earlier, opposition figures from the Serbia Against Violence list said
   they wanted to enter the assembly building to address people from the
   balcony at the site.

   The protest had begun in front of the headquarters of the Republic
   Electoral Commission (RIK), where thousands of citizens answered calls to
   appear by the opposition coalition.

   The opposition is demanding annulment of election results at all levels
   because of what it says was widespread fraud, claiming that Vucic's SNS
   stole the elections.

   Vucic denied allegations by domestic nongovernmental organizations,
   foreign observers, and opposition figures of electoral irregularities. He
   said the vote took place in a democratic atmosphere and were "the most
   peaceful ever in modern history."

   He said it was solely up to the country's institutions to decide whether
   any elections should be rerun.

   Vucic said the newly elected parliament -- with the SNS in control --
   would be installed in January 2024 and that formation of the government is
   expected at the end of February.

   He added, without elaborating, that he did not expect Ana Brnabic to
   remain as prime minister in the next government. But he said she will
   perform "significant functions in the future."

   On December 23, the Serbian Prosecutor's Office said it had launched an
   investigation into allegations of fraud during the elections after it said
   it received reports of possible irregularities, including vote buying and
   the falsifying of ballots and signatures

   The OSCE and other international observers denounced what they called a
   series of "irregularities" in the voting. Domestic nongovernmental
   election-monitoring groups also alleged irregularities following the vote.

   Among the claims by the opposition were allegations that the ruling party
   brought in ethnic Serbs from Bosnia-Herzegovina and other former Yugoslav
   republics to vote in the capital.

   Election officials at the RIK on December 24 said that, following a check
   of voter lists, they had determined that the claims of ineligible voters
   taking part in the Belgrade elections were "not true."

   On election night, the Belgrade Electoral Commission reported that the SNS
   list won 39.3 percent of the votes (49 mandates) in the Belgrade
   elections, and the Serbia Against Violence list won 34.3 percent (42
   mandates).

   In the nationwide parliamentary vote, officials said that, based on
   complete but uncertified results, the SNS received about 46 percent of the
   vote and Serbia Against Violence won 23.5 percent.

   Officials said final results on both parliamentary and local elections in
   Belgrade are still pending and could take months to determine, given that
   some objections filed could lead to the repeating of elections at
   particular precincts.

   Read more
     *  
     *  
     *  
     *  
     * * _____________________ [ text ]
     * December 24, 2023
     * By RFE/RL's Russian Service

   Stun Grenade Reportedly Thrown Into Party Attended By BBC Russian Service
                              Journalists In Riga

   Riga
   Riga
   [ ]
   [ Submit ] [ Submit ]

   An unknown person threw a stun grenade into a party attended by
   journalists from the BBC Russian Service in a bar in Riga, Latvia,
   according to reports by Novaya Gazeta Europe and German broadcaster
   Deutsche Welle (DW), citing eyewitnesses, including BBC staff. Latvian
   police on December 24 announced the detention of two suspects. The BBC
   didn’t immediately comment. Several people were stunned by the grenade,
   but no serious injuries were reported. To read the original story by
   RFE/RL’s Russian Service, click here.

   Read more
     *  
     *  
     *  
     *  
     * * _____________________ [ text ]
     * December 24, 2023
     * By AFP

               Ukraine Says Blockade Ends At Poland Border Point

   Polish haulers have blocked crossing points since early November to
   protest what they say is unfair competition from Ukrainian truckers.
   Polish haulers have blocked crossing points since early November to
   protest what they say is unfair competition from Ukrainian truckers.
   [ ]
   [ Submit ] [ Submit ]

   Polish truckers on December 24 ended their blockade of a border checkpoint
   with Ukraine, Kyiv said, days after the countries discussed resolving a
   row that has soured ties. Polish haulers have blocked crossing points
   since early November to protest what they say is unfair competition from
   Ukrainian truckers. The Ukrainian border guard on December 24 said the
   protest at the Medyka-Shehyni checkpoint ended at 9:30 a.m., with the
   registration and crossing of trucks resuming "as usual." The European
   Union had waived a requirement for Ukrainian transport companies to
   possess entry permits in a gesture of solidarity after Russia's invasion
   in February 2022.

   Read more
     *  
     *  
     *  
     *  
     * * _____________________ [ text ]
     * Updated December 24, 2023
     * By RFE/RL's Moldovan Service

       Moldova Pro-West President Sandu To Seek Reelection, EU Referendum

   Moldovan President Maia Sandu attends a rally celebrating the European
   Union's decision to open membership talks with Moldova, in Chisinau on
   December 17.
   Moldovan President Maia Sandu attends a rally celebrating the European
   Union's decision to open membership talks with Moldova, in Chisinau on
   December 17.
   [ ]
   [ Submit ] [ Submit ]

   CHISINAU – Maia Sandu, Moldova’s pro-Western president, announced she will
   seek reelection next year and also called on parliament to organize a
   referendum on her small southeastern European nation’s potential accession
   to the EU.

   “Our future lies in the European family and it is necessary to say clearly
   -- the whole country -- which path we choose for Moldova,” she said in a
   Facebook post and video on December 24.

   “I call on parliament to initiate the holding of a referendum next autumn,
   at which the voice of citizens will be decisive,” she added.

   At a summit in Brussels, the EU on December 14 announced the decision to
   open membership negotiations with Moldova and Ukraine and to grant
   candidacy status to Georgia.

   Sandu at the time invited citizens to a pro-European gathering on December
   17 in Chisinau to herald what she described as the "historic step for the
   destiny of our country."

   Controversial fringe Moldovan politician Alexandr Kalinin openly supports
   Moscow's full-scale invasion of Ukraine. (file photo) Controversial fringe
   Moldovan politician Alexandr Kalinin openly supports Moscow's full-scale
   invasion of Ukraine. (file photo)
   SEE ALSO:

    The Pro-Kremlin, Far-Right Figure Vowing To Take Down Moldova's Government

   Moldova's pro-Western prime minister, Dorin Recean, echoed Sandu, saying
   that "Moldova is European" and "our future is in the EU."

   Sandu on December 14 also hailed parliament’s adoption of a national
   defense strategy tying her nation to the West, saying it "is a big step
   toward strengthening the security and stability of our country."

   Sandu added that the government's goal is to transform Moldova -- which
   has a population of about 3.5 million people -- from "a vulnerable state
   with fragile democracy" into a "strong, modern, resilient, and European
   state, capable of taking care of its citizens."

   In her Christmas Eve comments, Sandu asked asks voters to support her for
   another term as president in the elections expected to take place in
   November 2024.

   It was not immediately clear whether Sandu is seeking to hold a referendum
   on EU membership at the same time.

   It would be the third time Sandu has run for president. She was defeated
   by pro-Moscow Socialist Igor Dodon in 2016 but scored a victory against
   Dodon in 2020.

   In a Facebook posting, Dodon on December 24 blasted Sandu’s announcement,
   saying that “after three years in office, Maia Sandu has nothing to offer
   but a referendum to ‘save’ her from political drowning.”

   “She hopes to partner with Europe and that this will bring her a new
   mandate. But people are no longer as naive as they were in 2020. Today,
   they associate Maia Sandu not with progress and law, but with poverty,
   arrogance, and anti-democratic abuse,” he said, adding that the Socialists
   "have every moral and legal basis" to run the country.

   Read more
     *  
     *  
     *  
     *  
     * * _____________________ [ text ]
     * December 24, 2023
     * By dpa

            Afghanistan Launches Massive Polio Vaccination Campaign

   An Afghan health worker administers polio vaccine drops to children during
   a polio vaccination campaign in Kandahar.
   An Afghan health worker administers polio vaccine drops to children during
   a polio vaccination campaign in Kandahar.
   [ ]
   [ Submit ] [ Submit ]

   Afghanistan will launch a massive new polio vaccination campaign on
   December 25 aimed at protecting more than 8.8 million children, the Health
   Ministry announced on December 24. The campaign will last four days, but
   will be extended to one week in 42 districts in the eastern part of the
   country where the risk of the wild virus is very high, the ministry added.
   Children under the age of 10 will be vaccinated in these areas too, while
   elsewhere the age cap for the vaccine is 5. The number of positive cases
   recorded this year is concerning, the ministry said.

   Read more
     *  
     *  
     *  
     *  
     * * _____________________ [ text ]
     * December 24, 2023
     * By AP

          Iran's Navy Adds Sophisticated Cruise Missiles To Its Armory

   An overview of the Iranian port of Konarak (file photo)
   An overview of the Iranian port of Konarak (file photo)
   [ ]
   [ Submit ] [ Submit ]

   Iran’s navy on December 24 added domestically produced sophisticated
   cruise missiles to its arsenal, state TV reported. The TV said both
   Talaeieh and Nasir cruise missiles have arrived at a naval base near the
   Indian Ocean in the southern Iranian port of Konarak, some 1,400
   kilometers southeast of Tehran. Navy chief Shahram Irani said the Talaeieh
   has a range of more than 1,000 kilometers and called it "fully smart.”
   Irani said the cruise missile is capable of changing targets during
   travel. He said the Nasi has a range of 100 kilometers and can be
   installed on warships.

   Read more
     *  
     *  
     *  
     *  
     * * _____________________ [ text ]
     * Updated December 24, 2023
     * By RFE/RL's Ukrainian Service

 Ukrainians Celebrate Christmas In Defiance Of Moscow As Zelenskiy Hails Unity

   Relatives of prisoners of war decorated a Christmas tree with balloons
   bearing the names of soldiers in Dnipro, southeastern Ukraine, on December
   24.
   Relatives of prisoners of war decorated a Christmas tree with balloons
   bearing the names of soldiers in Dnipro, southeastern Ukraine, on December
   24.
   [ ]
   [ Submit ] [ Submit ]

   KYIV -- Embattled Ukraine, which has defended itself for nearly two years
   against the Russian invasion, is defying Moscow again as it celebrates
   Christmas for the first time on December 25 instead of the January date
   more closely linked to Russia, even as fighting has showed no signs of
   letup with the arrival of the holiday season.

   Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy in July signed a law moving the
   official Christmas Day holiday to December 25 from January 7, the day
   observed by the Russian Orthodox Church.

  Live Briefing: Russia's Invasion Of Ukraine

   RFE/RL's Live Briefing gives you all of the latest developments on
   Russia's full-scale invasion, Kyiv's counteroffensive, Western military
   aid, global reaction, and the plight of civilians. For all of RFE/RL's
   coverage of the war in Ukraine, click here.

   The law stated that its goal was to "abandon the Russian heritage,"
   including that of "imposing the celebration of Christmas" on January 7.

   It cited Ukrainians' "relentless, successful struggle for their identity
   [and] the desire of all Ukrainians to live their lives with their own
   traditions, holidays."

   Traditionally, Ukrainian Christians, most of whom are Orthodox, have
   celebrated Christmas on January 7, the day most other Orthodox-dominated
   countries -- including Russia and several other Slavic countries -- mark
   the holiday.

   The switch brings Ukraine's Orthodox worshippers in line with the
   country's Catholics, who earlier this year approved a similar change in
   calendars.

   In his nightly video address posted as Ukraine prepared to celebrate the
   holiday, Zelenskiy said: “Today, all Ukrainians are together.”

   “We all celebrate Christmas together. On one date, as one big family, as
   one nation, as one, one country…. Today, it will unite millions of voices
   -- more than ever before.”

   In the southeastern cities of Dnipro and Zaporizhzhya, dozens of relatives
   of Ukrainian soldiers being held by Russian forces as prisoners of war
   gathered for Christmas Eve rallies to decorate trees with the names of
   their loved ones.

   "My son, the defender of Mariupol, has been in captivity for a second
   year, the second Christmas. Our Christmas tree is an appeal to society. It
   is a reminder that we are waiting for our children," Iryna, the mother of
   a POW, sad in Dnipro.

   In Zaporizhzhya, organizer Olha Plechun said the general public perceives
   captivity as just detention, while conditions of Ukrainian military
   members in Russian custody represent a "slow death."

   Relatives of Ukrainian prisoners of war protested for their release on
   December 24 in several cities.
   Relatives of Ukrainian prisoners of war protested for their release on
   December 24 in several cities.

   "Our guys are being tortured. We need exchanges. Our enemy is not noble:
   They do not observe any conventions,” she said.

   Ukrainian authorities said that as of November 17, at least 3,574 military
   personnel and 763 civilians are in Russian captivity.

   Also on December 24, the Ukrainian and Russian militaries continued to
   exchange unconfirmed claims of shooting down the other side’s warplanes.

   The Ukrainian Air Force said anti-aircraft units had downed a Russian
   Su-34 fighter bomber near Mariupol, the Russia-occupied southern port
   city.

   Russia’s military earlier said its forces had shot down four Ukrainian
   military aircraft over the past 24 hours.

   That came just two days after Zelenskiy on December 22 congratulated the
   Ukrainian military for shooting down three Russian military planes over
   southern Ukraine.

   On the battlefield, at least four people were killed and nine others
   wounded in Russian shelling in the southern Ukrainian city of Kherson over
   the past 24 hours, regional authorities said on December 24.

   Russian troops fired 71 shells at Kherson, hitting the city center,
   residential areas, medical and educational institutions, and "critical
   infrastructure facilities," Oleksandr Prokudin, head of the regional
   military administration wrote on Telegram.

   Prokudin said a couple in their 80s and a child were among the victims.

   Ukrainian forces recaptured Kherson following several months of Russian
   occupation in November last year, but Russian forces continue to shell the
   area.

   Separately, Kyiv said Ukraine's air defense shot down 14 out of 15 Russian
   drones launched overnight.

   Administrator Nina Bondar says the shelter survives thanks to the
   humanitarian aid of international donors and several grants. Administrator
   Nina Bondar says the shelter survives thanks to the humanitarian aid of
   international donors and several grants.
   SEE ALSO:

    Grief And Gratitude: Displaced Ukrainians At Dnipro Shelter Prepare To Ring
    In New Year  

   "Ukraine's air force and defense forces destroyed 14 Shaheds in Mykolayiv,
   Kirovohrad, Zaporizhzhya, Dnipro, and Khmelnytskiy regions," the Ukrainian
   Air Force said on the Telegram messaging app.

   There were no reports of damage or casualties as the results of the drone
   attacks.

   Meanwhile, Ukraine is awaiting a long-desired boost to its military
   arsenal in the coming days as it battles to counter Russian air supremacy
   over its skies.

   Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte told Zelenskiy in a phone call on December
   22 Ukraine will likely receive it first shipment of advanced F-16 fight
   jets before the end of the year.

   "Today, I informed President Zelenskiy of our government's decision to
   prepare an initial 18 F-16 fighter aircraft for delivery to Ukraine,"
   Rutte said late on December 22 in a post on social media platform X.

   In a video message late on December 23, Zelenskiy thanked Germany,
   Finland, and the Netherlands for providing military aid to help Kyiv fight
   off the Russian invasion.

   Germany has supplied Gepard anti-aircraft tank, 155-caliber artillery
   shells, and other necessary weapons, Zelenskiy said.

   The Netherlands and Finland sent further aid packages each totaling $110
   million, the Ukrainian president said, without providing more details.

        With reporting by AFP, dpa, and Reuters

   Read more
     *  
     *  
     *  
     *  
     * * _____________________ [ text ]
     * December 24, 2023
     * By AFP

            Ukrainians Defy Moscow With First December 25 Christmas

   Ukrainian soldiers attend Mass at an Orthodox church near the front lines
   in the Donetsk region as Ukrainians prepare to celebrate their first
   Christmas according to a Western calendar.
   Ukrainian soldiers attend Mass at an Orthodox church near the front lines
   in the Donetsk region as Ukrainians prepare to celebrate their first
   Christmas according to a Western calendar.
   [ ]
   [ Submit ] [ Submit ]

   Many Ukrainians will celebrate Christmas Day on December 25 for the first
   time, after the government changed the date from the Orthodox Church
   observance of January 7 in a snub to Russia. Ukraine passed a law in July
   moving the celebration to December 25, the day when most of the Christian
   world marks Christmas. The law signed by President Volodymyr Zelenskiy
   noted that Ukrainians wanted to "live their own life with their own
   traditions and holidays.” It allows them to "abandon the Russian heritage
   of imposing Christmas celebrations on January 7," it added.

   Read more
     *  
     *  
     *  
     *  
     * * _____________________ [ text ]
     * Load more

Editors' Picks

     * Members of the initiative group for the creation of the Atazhurt party
       came to the Kazakh Justice Ministry to submit documents for
       registration in Astana in April. Members of the initiative group for
       the creation of the Atazhurt party came to the Kazakh Justice Ministry
       to submit documents for registration in Astana in April.

    A Movement Against China's Internment Camps Tries To Become A Party In
    Kazakhstan

     * Women protest in Kabul against a UN conference in Doha this summer.
       (file photo) Women protest in Kabul against a UN conference in Doha
       this summer. (file photo)

    West On Course For More Engagement With Taliban, But Normalized Relations A
    Long Way Off

     * Administrator Nina Bondar says the shelter survives thanks to the
       humanitarian aid of international donors and several grants.
       Administrator Nina Bondar says the shelter survives thanks to the
       humanitarian aid of international donors and several grants.

    Grief And Gratitude: Displaced Ukrainians At Dnipro Shelter Prepare To Ring
    In New Year  

     * The money raised at a "drone-pong" event in Kyiv was used to buy two
       Mavic 3T drones for a battalion fighting in the south of Ukraine. The
       money raised at a "drone-pong" event in Kyiv was used to buy two Mavic
       3T drones for a battalion fighting in the south of Ukraine.

    Donation Nation: How Ukrainians Support The Army Amid Financial Uncertainty

     * Crowds gather at a memorial to Soviet soldiers in the Antakalnis
       cemetery in Vilnius in May 2013. The brutalist sculptures were torn
       down in December 2022 after an earlier UN Human Rights Committee<lt;a
       href="https://www.delfi.lt/en/culture/lithuania-asks-un-committee-to-lift-temporary-protection-measures-applied-on-soviet-monument-in-antakalnis-cemetery-91407973">gt;
       <lt;strong>gt;injunction had paused the work.<lt;/strong>gt;<lt;/a>gt;<lt;br />gt;   Crowds
       gather at a memorial to Soviet soldiers in the Antakalnis cemetery in
       Vilnius in May 2013. The brutalist sculptures were torn down in
       December 2022 after an earlier UN Human Rights Committee<lt;a
       href="https://www.delfi.lt/en/culture/lithuania-asks-un-committee-to-lift-temporary-protection-measures-applied-on-soviet-monument-in-antakalnis-cemetery-91407973">gt;
       <lt;strong>gt;injunction had paused the work.<lt;/strong>gt;<lt;/a>gt;<lt;br />gt;  

    Gone To Ground: The Soviet-Era Monuments Removed Since Russia's Invasion Of
    Ukraine

Top Trending

   1

    Ukraine Awaits Delivery Of First F-16 Jets In Coming Days As Kyiv Seeks To
    Counter Russian Air Superiority

   2

    Donation Nation: How Ukrainians Support The Army Amid Financial Uncertainty

   3

    'Slaves': Russian Soldiers Voice Disillusion With Ukraine War

   4

    Russia's Communist Party Nominates 75-Year-Old Member To Run Against Putin

   5

    Ukraine Innovates To Survive As Moscow Advances Near Bakhmut And Avdiyivka

   6

    Ukrainian Air Force Claims Destruction Of Russian Ship In Crimea; Moscow
    Confirms Missile Strike

   7

    Czech Government Declares Day Of Mourning After Gunman Kills 13 At Prague
    University

   8

    'Tens Of Millions Of Tragedies': Russian Woman Faces Psychiatric Confinement
    Over Uncompromising Anti-War Stance

   9

    The Azadi Briefing: Taliban's Hydropower Plans Raise Concerns In Pakistan 

   10

    Ukraine Says Forces Holding Out In Strategic Town Of Maryinka Despite
    Russian Claims

Subscribe

   China in Eurasia Widget Form-GR-1878

Listen

   Talking China In Eurasia Talking China In Eurasia
   Latest episode
   How Ursula Von Der Leyen Became The EU's Top China Hawk
   Talking China In Eurasia
   Subscribe
   Talking China In Eurasia

  Subscribe

   Apple Podcasts Google Podcasts Spotify RSS Feed
   The Week Ahead In Russia The Week Ahead In Russia
   Latest episode
   Podcast: Weapons, War, and Power
   The Week Ahead In Russia
   Subscribe
   The Week Ahead In Russia

  Subscribe

   Apple Podcasts Google Podcasts Spotify RSS Feed
   Back to top
     * Follow Us
          * *  *  *  *  *  *  * Quick Hits 
          * About RFE/RL
          * Contact Us
          * Pressroom
          * Terms Of Use
          * Jobs and Internships
          * U.S. Agency For Global Media
          * Legal
          * All RFE/RL Sites
     * Browse 
          * News
          * Features
          * Newsletters
          * Multimedia
          * Podcasts
          * Qishloq Ovozi (January 2014-March 2022)
          * RFE/RL Newsline (Jan 2000-May 2008)
          * Analytical Reports (Jan 2000-June 2008)

   Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty © 2023 RFE/RL, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   XS
   SM
   MD
   LG
</text>
</page>§
<page='en_ukraine-19'>
<text>
   Link: canonical
   Link: alternate en
   Skip to main content
   [IMG]

The Columns

     * Deutschland 2030
     * Berlin Cable
     * Pariscope
     * Carbon Critical
     * Indo-Pacific Watch
     * All Columns

The Journal

     * Current Issue
     * All Issues
     * About
     * Contributors
     * All Articles

Social media menu

     * Twitter
   Logo: Internationale Politik
   * * Menu

Main menu

     * Current Issue
     * All Issues
     * Columns
     * About

Breadcrumb

    1. All articles

    IPQ

   Aug 28, 2023
   Aug 28, 2023

                     China, Russia, and the War in Ukraine

   The Sino-Russian relationship has become a more intractable problem for
   the transatlantic alliance. The West should continue to concentrate its
   efforts on Beijing.

   Angela Stent
   Image
   DOCUMENT DATE:  21 March, 2023  Russian President Vladimir Putin and
   Chinese President Xi Jinping arrive for Russia-China talks in an expanded
   format at the Kremlin in Moscow, Russia March 21, 2023.
   License
   All rights reserved
   Copyright owner
   © Sputnik/Alexei Maishev/Kremlin via REUTERS

  Current issue

  Fall 2023 Issue: Toward a Wider and Deeper EU

   View of the European Parliament in Strasbourg, France June 12, 2023
   IPQ 4/2023

  Share

   Before Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24, 2022, the Russia-China
   strategic partnership was becoming increasingly challenging for the United
   States and its allies. But since the war began, Chinese-Russian relations
   have presented more intractable problems for the transatlantic alliance.
   Chinese support for Russia has enabled the Kremlin to continue its
   aggression against Ukraine and has helped solidify the refusal of much of
   the Global South to condemn or sanction Moscow. It has complicated the
   West’s moves to isolate Russia and exclude it from the global economy.
   Conversely, if it so choses, Beijing could play a constructive role in
   mediating between the parties to end this war. But so far China’s vague
   “peace plan” has achieved nothing concrete, and it continues to emphasize
   the importance of its partnership with Russia.

   Since the invasion, China has consistently blamed NATO and the West for
   provoking Russia into launching the attack and not taking Russia’s
   legitimate security interests into account, repeating verbatim Russian
   talking points. It has refrained from calling the conflict a war or saying
   that Russia invaded its neighbor. Russian President Vladmir Putin may very
   well not have told Chinese President Xi Jinping in advance in February
   2022 that this would be a full-scale invasion, as opposed to a
   limited-sounding “Special Military Operation.” But once it started, China
   may have presumed, like many in the West, that the war would be over in a
   few days.

   By now, the Chinese must be taken aback by the below-par performance of
   the Russian military and the brutality of the war, and they may well have
   lost some confidence in Putin’s judgment. But they cannot afford to have
   Russia lose, given the deepening tensions of great power competition.
   While China was silent during the 24-hour mutiny by Evgeny Prigozhin’s
   Wagner group back in June, it must question the dynamics of Kremlin
   politics and wonder how stable the situation really is.

A Key Partner

   Russia remains a key partner for China in its determination to create a
   multipolar world order in which the United States and Europe no longer set
   the agenda or the rules. Russia’s vision of a post-West order is different
   from China’s. President Putin’s Russia promotes a disruptive and anarchic
   world order with no rules. But the nightmare scenario for China would be a
   post-Putin Russia led by a leader who would reassess Russia’s interests
   and decide that it was important to repair relations with the West and
   distance Moscow from Beijing. China’s determination to prevent Russia from
   losing the war and experiencing unpredictable regime change is a constant
   challenge for the US and its allies who are supporting Ukraine. It adds to
   the weight of the other issues that are straining the West’s relationship
   with China.

   Despite the initial “no limits” label, there are indeed limits to this
   partnership. When Xi visited Moscow in March 2023 he praised the
   Russian-Chinese strategic partnership. But he did not meet Russia’s twin
   goals of signing an agreement to build the Power of Siberia II gas
   pipeline or supply lethal weapons to Russia. So far, Beijing has been
   careful not to violate Western sanctions against Russia for fear that it
   would trigger secondary sanctions on China.

   During the summit, Russia commended China’s “objective and unbiased
   position” on Ukraine, including the peace proposal Beijing made in
   February. A separate statement detailed plans to expand bilateral
   investment and trade, including in national currencies, to develop new
   bilateral logistics channels, to expand energy cooperation, and to ensure
   both countries’ supply of “basic goods and mineral resources.”

   Indeed, China’s exports to Russia grew by 67.2 percent in the first half
   of 2023. One reason that China has moved to the fore as the world’s
   leading auto exporter is because it has filled the void left by the
   withdrawal of Western automakers from Russia. Chinese trade with Russia
   has steadily increased since the war began, although it remains much more
   important for Russia than for China. Indeed, Russia is becoming a Chinese
   economic dependency, having lost its natural gas and other markets in
   Europe that were so important for Putin’s rise to power.

   The two countries have also stepped up their military cooperation in the
   past 15 months. China, Russia, and Iran launched joint military exercises
   in March in the Gulf of Oman in the latest sign of Beijing's efforts to
   expand its influence in the Middle East. In June, the Chinese and Russian
   militaries had their sixth joint air strategic patrol in the airspace of
   the Sea of Japan and the East China Sea. Chinese and Russian aircraft
   entered the southern and eastern parts of the South Korean air defense
   identification zone. South Korea scrambled fighter jets after four Russian
   and four Chinese military aircraft entered its air defense zone. Japan
   responded in a similar way after two Russian and two Chinese bombers flew
   over the Sea of Japan to the East China Sea, where two other Chinese
   fighter planes joined. The joint exercises in the Sea of Japan and the
   East China Sea are seen as particularly provocative by the West’s Asian
   allies. China and Russia have also held joint naval exercises with South
   Africa.

Promoting the BRICS

   Since the war began, China and Russia have also redoubled the promotion of
   the multilateral organizations they lead that exclude the West—BRICS and
   the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO). They see these groupings as
   important building blocks for their vision of a post-West multilateral
   global order. Indeed, six countries—Argentina, Egypt, Ethiopia, Iran,
   Saudia Arabia, and the Unitd Arab Emirates—will join BRICS in 2024, as
   announced last week at this year’s BRICS summit in Johannisburg (which
   took place without Putin in attendance); 19 had applied for membership.
   Some of these future members and applicants have close ties to the United
   States, and it is unclear how joining BRICS would impact these ties.

   China and Russia have also emerged as champions of the Global South.
   Russia has reiterated the claim that it is an “anti-imperialist” power and
   that the United States and Europe are the imperialists. Somehow, the
   Soviet Union’s colonial role in Eastern Europe and over non-Russian ethnic
   groups is overlooked. The majority of Global South countries do not view
   Russia’s invasion of Ukraine as part of the Kremlin’s imperialist project
   and many still view Russia as the successor to the USSR, which supported
   anti-colonial movements in the Third World. They believe that Russia has
   done nothing worse than what the United States has done over the past half
   century (Vietnam, Iraq, Afghanistan), and have refused to condemn or
   sanction Russia. India, a partner of the United States in the Quad (with
   Japan and Australia), has made it abundantly clear that Russia remains an
   important economic and strategic partner, even as Prime Minister Narendra
   Modi has warned Putin against making nuclear threats. India’s foreign
   Minister Subrahmanyan Jainshankar has called Russia “a time-tested and
   steady partner.”

European Leverage

   All these developments have made it much more difficult for the West to
   maintain sanctions on Russia. Yet Europe does have some leverage.
   Chinese-American relations deteriorated under the Trump and Biden
   administrations and show few signs of improving. Indeed, the US has
   designated China as the number one threat to its security. It has also
   leaned on its European allies to distance themselves more from China, one
   of their principle economic partners.

   China is still hoping to persuade the Europeans not to take a similar path
   of restrictions and decoupling to that of the United States. Hence the
   “peace plan,” and the belief in some European capitals that these Chinese
   attempts should be encouraged. Of course, the question that no outsider
   can answer is how much clout Xi has with Putin to persuade him to change
   course in Ukraine and agree to come to serious negotiations, rather than
   to continue to bank on the kind of propaganda that Russia launched just
   before the war, declaring it was all the West’s and Kyiv’s fault.

Address Beijing, Not Moscow

   The West has some options in trying to counter the impact of the deepening
   Chinese-Russian relationship on the war in Ukraine. The addressee must be
   China, not Russia, for as long as the war continues. First, China should
   be reminded that supplying lethal weapons to Russia will lead to secondary
   sanctions for China. It should also be made clear—as it already has been
   to the Kremlin—that any use of nuclear weapons by Russia will elicit a
   swift, robust response from NATO. Xi reportedly warned Putin in person
   that the use of nuclear weapons was inadmissible, although it is unclear
   what China would do if Russia were to detonate a tactical nuclear weapon.

   A more challenging task is to engage China, even as Washington’s
   relationship with Beijing is  brittle. Secretary of State Antony Blinken
   and Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen have recently visited Beijing seeking
   to resume a dialogue after the spy balloon incident and a long drought of
   contact. German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and French President Emmanuel
   Macron have also visited. While it may be difficult to persuade China to
   distance itself from Russia, the West should refrain from taking actions
   that push them closer together. Europe is already engaged in a vigorous
   debate about how to deal with China—as Germany’s first China strategy
   paper shows—and, as long as China believes that it can continue to pursue
   profitable and productive ties with Europe it may have incentives to
   continue to play a mediating role between Russia, Ukraine, and Europe.

   There is one area where the US and Europe should be doing more, and that
   is sustained outreach to the Global South. Often these countries’
   neutrality or tacit support for Russia is a product of long-standing
   ideological antipathy to the United States. Moreover, some countries
   understand that, as a result of this war, with shifting coalitions
   emerging, they may have more say in the global order going forward.

   While not countering that view, the West should make a better case for why
   a war far away in Europe does affect their future. If Russia can get away
   with invading and annexing a neighbor’s territory, what does that mean for
   their future sovereignty and territorial integrity? It is better to
   emphasize Russia’s violation of international law than to cast the
   conflict in terms of democracy versus autocracy. China has reiterated its
   commitment to the UN Charter and to states’ territorial integrity and
   sovereignty. Emphasizing that Russia disregards all of these is a first
   step to engaging the Global South in a more productive conversation about
   the war.

   Angela Stent is a senior non-resident fellow at the Brookings Institution
   and a senior advisor to the German Council on Foreign Relations’ (DGAP)
   Center for Eurasian, Russian, and Eastern European Studies. An updated
   edition of her book Putin’s World: Russia Against the West and with the
   Rest was published earlier this year.

   [IMG]
   Angela Stent
     * Load more
   Home

    A Berlin View on Foreign Affairs

Pre footer menu

     * All Articles
     * All Columns

Social media menu

     * Twitter

Footer menu

     * Masthead
     * Data protection
</text>
</page>§
<page='en_ukraine-20'>
<text>
   Link: canonical
   Jump to content
   UK News Website of the Year
     * News
     * Sport
     * Health
     * Money
     * Business
     * Opinion
     * Israel
     * Ukraine
     * Royals
     * Life
     * Style
     * Travel
     * Culture
     * Puzzles
   UK Edition
     * [IMG] US Edition
   Subscribe now Free for one month
   Log in
   See all News 
     * UK news 
          * UK news home
          * Scotland
          * Wales
          * Northern Ireland
     * Politics 
          * Conservatives
          * Brexit
          * Labour
          * Lib Dems
          * SNP
          * US politics
     * World 
          * US News
          * Europe
          * Middle East
          * Asia
          * Australasia
          * Africa
          * South America
     * Health news
     * Defence
     * Science
     * Education
     * Environment
     * Investigations 
          * Investigations home
          * Signals Network
          * Contact us
     * Global Health Security 
          * Global Health Security home
          * Climate &amp; People
          * Science &amp; Disease
          * Terror &amp; Security
          * Women &amp; Girls
          * Opinion &amp; Analysis

Sections

   UK Edition
     * [IMG] US Edition
     * News 
          * News home
          * UK news
          * Politics
          * World
          * Health news
          * Defence
          * Science
          * Education
          * Environment
          * Investigations
          * Global Health Security
     * Sport 
          * Sport home
          * Football
          * Rugby Union
          * Cricket
          * F1
          * Golf
          * Tennis
          * Women's Sport
          * Racing
          * Cycling
          * Boxing
          * More...
          *  * Health 
          * Health home
          * Diet
          * Fitness
          * Conditions
          * Wellbeing
          * Parenting
          * Guides
     * Money 
          * Money home
          * Property
          * Tax
          * Pensions
          * Banking
          * Investing
          * Net Zero
          * Calculators
          * Guides
          * *  * Business 
          * Business home
          * Alex
          * Economy
          * Companies
          * Markets
          * Tech
     * Opinion 
          * Opinion home
          * Obituaries
          * Letters to the Editor
          * Telegraph View
          * Our columnists
          * Cartoons
          *  * Israel
     * Ukraine 
          * Ukraine home
          * Daily podcast
          * Daily newsletter
     * Royals 
          * Royals home
          * King Charles III
          * Queen Camilla
          * Prince William
          * Princess of Wales
          * Prince Harry
          * Duchess of Sussex
          *  * Life 
          * Life home
          * Family
          * Columnists
          * Cookbook
          * Food &amp; Drink
          * Tel Mag
          * Cars
          * Puzzle News
          * Gardening
          * Recommended
          *  * Style 
          * Style home
          * Fashion
          * Beauty
          * Luxury
          * Interiors
          * Weddings
     * Travel 
          * Travel home
          * UK holidays
          * Dream Trips
          * Destinations
          * City guides
          * Hotels
          * Cruises
          * Rail
          * Adventure
          * Luxury
          * Ask the experts
          *  * Culture 
          * Culture home
          * TV
          * Film
          * Music
          * Books
          * Theatre
          * Opera
          * Art
          * Gaming
          * Hit lists
          * Telegraph Tickets
          * More...
     * Puzzles
     * [IMG] UK Edition 
          * [IMG] US Edition
   Subscribe now Free for one month
   Log in
   Follow us on:
     * *  *  *  *  *  More from The Telegraph

     * Download our app
     * Newsletters
     * Telegraph Extra
     * Wine Cellar
     * Recommended
     * Financial Solutions
     * Events
     * Betting
     * Dating
     * Offers
     * Travel offers
     * Shop
     * Garden shop
     * Bookshop
     * Tickets
     * Puzzles
     * Fantasy Football
     * Work at The Telegraph
     * Telegraph Corporate
     * Help and support
     * The Chelsea Magazine Company
     * Broadband and Mobile Deals
     * Voucher codes See top shops 
          * Samsung
          * Nike
          * ASOS
          * eBay
          * Currys
          * Wayfair
          * TUI
          * JD Sports
          * Travelodge
          * Adidas
          * Broadband deals
          * Cheap broadband
          * Broadband in my area
          * Broadband and TV deals
          * Mobile deals
          * SIM-only deals
     *  Ukraine-Russia war: Germany to supply Ukraine with 20,000 more shells in
                               £1.1bn aid package

   21 November 2023 • 3:14pm
   Ukrainian soldiers drink coffee and smoke at their snowy position near
   Kharkiv [ Submit ]
   Ukrainian soldiers drink coffee and smoke at their snowy position near
   Kharkiv Credit: Diego Herrera Carcedo

  Key moments

   Chosen by us to get you up to speed at a glance

   3:03pm
           We'll lose 'war of exhaustion', Ukrainian soldiers complain

   1:33pm
           Ukraine MP offered official $50k crypto bribe

   10:48am
           Ukraine's dream to join EU now a 'reality', says Zelensky

   9:42am
           Russia cannot co-exist with Zelensky's Ukraine, says diplomat

   8:07am
           Ukraine expands control on Dnipro's left bank

   Germany will supply Ukraine with 20,000 more strategically-important 155mm
   artillery shells as part of a new £1.1 billion military aid package.

   Defence Minister Boris Pistorius said the package would also include four
   additional IRIS-T air defence units and anti-tank mines.

   The artillery shells come on top of 140,000 155mm rounds Germany has
   already pledged to deliver next year.

   Volodymyr Zelensky said last week that artillery shell deliveries had
   “really slowed down” since the Israel-Hamas war began, with the European
   Union admitting earlier this month that it would fail to meet its pledge
   to supply one million shells by March next year.

   “This underlines that we stand with Ukraine sustainably and reliably,” Mr
   Pistorius said during an unannounced visit to Kyiv on Tuesday.

   The aid will supplement an £880,000 “winter package” announced by Berlin
   last month.

   Germany is the second-largest donor of military aid to Ukraine behind the
   United States and plans to double its commitment next year to £6.8bn.

     * Live Reporting

     * Related Stories

   Tim Sigsworth
   3:13PM

  Thank you for following today's live blog

   That’s it for our live coverage of the war in Ukraine today. Thank you all
   for reading and commenting, please check back with us again tomorrow.

   3:11PM

  Today's headlines

     * German defence minister Boris Pistorius and European Council president
       Charles Michel made surprise visits to Kyiv
     * The US sanctioned Russian officers for Bucha and Andriivka war crimes
     * Ukraine has expanded its control of the Dnipro river’s left bank, the
       ISW said
     * The MoD said Russia is stockpiling cruise missiles for a winter
       bombardment of Ukrainian infrastructure
     * US will send more Himars to Ukraine as part of a new $100m aid package
     * Germany announced a new $1.4billion aid package for Ukraine
     * Ukraine’s defence minister denied a decision has been made to sack two
       more generals
     * Ukrainian soldiers said they feared losing a “war of exhaustion” to
       Russia because of stretched frontline manpower 
   3:03PM

  We'll lose 'war of exhaustion', Ukrainian soldiers complain

   Ukrainian soldiers fear they will lose a “war of exhaustion” with Russia
   as their frontline units deplete in strength.

   Units fighting at the front are between 20 and 40 per cent below strength
   and “those remaining are tired,” retired Ukrainian lieutenant general Ihor
   Romanenko told the Wall Street Journal.

   “We don’t have a chance playing war of exhaustion with Russia,” said
   Private Bohdan Lysenko of the 47th Brigade, whose unit is defending
   Avdiivka with just 20 men, down from a peak in the summer of 120.

   “They’re not stupid. It’s a strategy… We don’t have enough ammunition, but
   they [the Russians] have enough people,” added Corporal Mykhailo
   Kotsyurba, who is in the same company as Pvt Lysenko.

   Britain and the US both estimate that Russia has lost more than 300,000
   killed and wounded soldiers during the war so far.

   “They treat us as waste material,” said Andrei Bednyaev, a Russian
   infantryman being held captive by the Ukrainians.

   The frontline has become increasingly stationary in recent months amid
   growing fears that the West cannot provide enough funding and arms for
   Ukraine to break through.

   2:22PM

  Ukraine denies plan to sack two more generals

   Ukraine’s defence minister has insisted a rumoured decision to sack two
   more generals has “not yet been made”.

   “I must say that the decision has not yet been made, but we are doing
   everything possible to improve efficiency,” Rustem Umerov told reporters.

   Media reports emerged last week that Ukraine would sack Lt Gen Serhii
   Naiev, who is joint forces commander, Maj Gen Tetiana Ostashchenko,
   commander of the medical forces, and Brig Gen Oleksandr Tarnavskyi, who
   leads the southern Tavria command.

   The reports were denied but Maj Gen Ostashchenko was then sacked on Sunday
   night, sparking speculation that Lt Gen Naiev and Brig Gen Tarnavskyi
   would follow.

   2:04PM

  Analysis: Ukraine turns to the EU for support amid Israel-Hamas war

   Charles Michel, one of the EU’s most a senior officials, arrived in Kyiv
   on Tuesday at a time when the Ukrainians are looking for Europe for
   support more than ever before, reports Joe Barnes, our Brussels
   Correspondent.

   Funding from the United States is starting to dwindle and the route into
   Nato is closed as long as fighting continues.

   This leaves Ukraine with limited avenues to find large international
   organisations willing to support it with new funds and not just rhetoric.
   The EU is seen as perhaps the last viable option on the table.

   And with war waging between Israel and Hamas, Washington has increasingly
   pressured Brussels to take up the mantle of supporting Ukraine. 

   The pledges made by European governments – including by Germany, which has
   announced a doubling of military support – are starting to reflect this
   shift. 

   Mr Michel, the European Council’s president, will play a key role in this
   assistance when he chairs talks in December over whether Ukraine can start
   accession negotiations with the EU and receive a €20billion military aid
   package. 

   Neither of those are certainties. 

   “When I say this will be a difficult European summit, this is a fact”, Mr
   Michel said. “I will spare no effort to have a positive decision in
   December, but can’t predict what happens – not everything is black and
   white.”

   1:56PM

  Germany announces new $1.4billion in aid for Ukraine

   Germany has announced a new $1.4billion (£1.1billion) aid package for
   Ukraine.

   Defence minister Boris Pistorius is visiting Kyiv today and said the deal
   will include four new IRIS-T air-to-air missile units.

   “I am sure this will help you in your fight against the Russian
   aggression,” he said. “This underlines that we stand with Ukraine
   sustainably and reliably.”

   The deal also includes anti-tank mines and an additional 20,000 artillery
   shells.

   Germany is the second-largest donor of military aid to Ukraine, behind the
   United States.

   1:33PM

  Ukraine MP offered official $50k crypto bribe

   A Ukrainian MP who sits on an anti-corruption committee in parliament has
   been accused of offering a $50,000 (£40,000) cryptocurrency bribe to a
   state official, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau (NABU) has said.

   NABU did not name the MP and it is not clear whether he has been arrested
   or charged.

   He is said to have made the offer to the head of the State Agency for
   Reconstruction and Infrastructure Development, who informed anti-graft
   investigators.

   The agency said it had “zero tolerance for corruption”.

   The MP is reported to have wanted assistance in obtaining state funds for
   infrastructure repairs in exchange for the bribe.

   1:05PM

  Watch: Drone footage of hospital destroyed in Donetsk

   tmg.video.placeholder.alt hmLLwMwLjQE
   12:37PM

  Ukraine's secret service detains priest for 'pro-Russian sermons'

   Ukraine’s secret service has detained a priest for including pro-Russian
   propaganda in his sermons and criticising the Ukrainian army.

   The clergyman, in the Russia-linked Ukrainian Orthodox Church, is also
   said to have praised Russian-backed warlords in Donetsk on his Telegram
   channel.

   The priest served in the western city of Vinnytsia but was in hiding when
   he was detained, the SBU said.

   Ukraine has two main Orthodox churches, the Ukrainian Orthodox Church
   (Moscow Patriarchate) and the Orthodox Church of Ukraine (Kyiv
   Patriarchate).

   It has accused the former of aligning with Russia during the war, which
   the church denies.

   12:19PM

  In pictures: Ukrainian soldiers on the frontline

   Camouflaged Ukrainian soldiers on the frontline
   Camouflaged Ukrainian soldiers on the frontline Credit: @ZelenskyyUa
   A Ukrainian artillery position fires towards Russian lines
   A Ukrainian artillery position fires towards Russian lines Credit:
   @ZelenskyyUa
   11:35AM

  US to send more Himars to Ukraine in new $100m package

   The US is sending more Himars rockets to Ukraine as part of a new
   $100million (£80million) aid package, defence secretary Lloyd Austin
   announced on a surprise visit to Kyiv.

   It will also send Stinger anti-aircraft missiles, Javelin anti-tank
   rockets and more than three million rounds of small arms ammunition.

   The deal was agreed as Mr Austin visited Kyiv to “reaffirm the United
   States’ steadfast support for Ukraine”.

   There has been months of increasing political division over support for
   Ukraine in the US, where Congress has refused to vote through an
   additional $60billion (£48.8billion) in funding requested by President Joe
   Biden.

   National security adviser Jake Sullivan said earlier this month that
   Washington’s ability to support Kyiv is getting “harder and harder” with
   “each week that passes”.

   11:13AM

  Russia and India hold joint naval drills

   Russia and India are holding joint naval exercises in the Bay of Bengal,
   Moscow’s defence ministry has said.

   “The purpose of the exercise is to comprehensively develop and strengthen
   naval co-operation between Russia and India,” it said.

   The exercises will last until Wednesday and involve ships from Russia’s
   Pacific fleet.

   Russia is trying to boost its presence in the region and last week held
   drills with Myanmar.

   India has not sanctioned Russia over the war in Ukraine and the US has
   previously voiced concerns about the possibility of joint naval drills.

   10:48AM

  Ukraine's dream to join EU now a 'reality', says Zelensky

   Volodymyr Zelensky has said Ukraine’s once “romantic dream” of joining the
   European Union is now a “reality”.

   “Therefore, our candidate status and further accession negotiations should
   certainly result in Ukraine’s full membership in the EU,” he said in a
   video address to mark the 10th anniversary of the start of the Maidan
   protests.

   “And we are doing all this despite the war, when our people are defending
   themselves and Europe right now.”

   10:21AM

  Maidan a 'foreign coup', says Kremlin

   The Kremlin has condemned the 2014 Maidan revolution as a “foreign coup”
   as Ukraine celebrates the 10th anniversary of the start of pro-European
   Union protests.

   “The fact that it was sponsored from abroad has been acknowledged,
   directly and indirectly, by representatives of foreign countries,” Kremlin
   spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said.

   “That is no secret to anyone.”

   9:50AM

  Moldova and Ukraine set for EU talks in Kyiv

   European Council president Charles Michel and Moldovan president Maia
   Sandu have both arrived in Kyiv this morning to discuss Ukraine and
   Moldova’s accession to the European Union.

   Ms Sandu said: “On our agenda: discussing next steps in EU accession of
   Moldova and Ukraine, enhancing regional security, and EU’s continued
   support of reforms and development in our countries.”

   “Good to be back in Kyiv – among friends,” added Mr Michel on X, formerly
   Twitter.

   9:42AM

  Russia cannot co-exist with Zelensky's Ukraine, says diplomat

   Russia cannot co-exist with Volodymyr Zelensky’s Ukraine, a diplomat has
   said.

   “The current regime is absolutely toxic, we do not see any options for
   co-existence with it at the moment,” Rodion Miroshnik, Russia’s
   ambassador-at-large, told reporters in Moscow.

   He accused Ukraine of war crimes against civilians and said the West would
   eventually lose interest in the war.

   “We can resist Nato just as much as we need to fulfill the tasks that the
   president has formulated,” he added.

   9:35AM

  MoD: Russia stockpiling cruise missiles for winter bombardment

   Russia has not used its “premier” cruise missiles for two months as it
   builds a stockpile for a winter bombardment of Ukrainian infrastructure,
   the British Ministry of Defence (MoD) has said.

   “Russia is highly likely to use these missiles if it repeats last year’s
   effort to destroy Ukraine’s critical national infrastructure,” it said in
   its latest defence intelligence update.

   The MoD added that Russia has been instead using Iranian-designed Shahed
   kamikaze drones to “degrade Ukraine’s air defences” before “any concerted
   winter campaign of strikes against Ukraine’s energy infrastructure”.

   9:23AM

  In pictures: Snowy conditions in Ukraine

   A Ukrainian artillery launch in snowy conditions near Kharkiv
   A Ukrainian artillery launch in snowy conditions near Kharkiv Credit:
   Diego Herrera Carcedo
   A Ukrainian soldier exits an artillery vehicle at the position
   A Ukrainian soldier exits an artillery vehicle at the position Credit:
   Diego Herrera Carcedo
   9:08AM

  Russia may seek compensation for Nord Stream

   Russia may seek compensation for the sabotage of the Nord Stream gas
   pipelines but will first wait for an investigation to conclude.

   The pipelines under the Baltic Sea were damaged in explosions in September
   2022 but no culprit has been identified yet.

   “The probe is not over yet, we are waiting for its results to be presented
   to the (United Nations) Security Council, then we will decide what to do,”
   Dmitry Birichevsky, a foreign ministry official, replied to a question on
   compensation asked by the Russian state news agency RIA.

   Sweden, Denmark and Germany are leading the investigation. Russia has
   blamed the US, Britain and Ukraine, which the three countries have denied.

   8:42AM

  We've fought off Ukraine's Dnipro crossing attempts, claims Russia

   Russian soldiers have fought off attempts by Ukraine to establish new
   footholds on the left bank of the Dnipro, its defence ministry has
   claimed.

   Contradicting open source analysis and Russian bloggers, the ministry said
   marines, aviation and artillery were “stopping all attempts by the armed
   forces of Ukraine to carry out amphibious landings on the Dnipro islands
   and the left bank of the Dnipro river.”

   It added that Ukrainian forces were suffering heavy casualties and losing
   equipment in these attempts.

   The defence ministry also published a video which it said showed marines
   defeating Ukrainian soldiers. Soldiers can be seen firing a variety of
   weapons in the footage but the outcome of the fighting shown is not clear.

   8:32AM

  Russian strikes overnight kill three and injure eight

   Russian strikes have killed two civilians and injured six in the eastern
   Donetsk and Kharkiv regions.

   A hospital and a coal mine in Selydove, a town in Donetsk, were struck by
   missiles, injuring eight, killing two and temporarily trapping 39 miners
   underground.

   Another Ukrainian was killed by shelling in Kharkiv, its governor Oleh
   Synehubov said.

   8:18AM

  Zelensky hails Maidan protestors as 'first counter-offensive'

   Volodymyr Zelensky has hailed the 2014 Maidan protestors as Ukraine’s
   “first counter-offensive” on the 10th anniversary of the pro-European
   Union protests.

   “10 years ago, we began a new chapter in our struggle,” he said.

   “10 years ago, Ukrainians launched their first counteroffensive. Against
   lawlessness and an attempt to rob us of our European future. Against
   unfreedom.

   ”Year after year, step by step, we make every effort to ensure that, among
   the other stars on the EU flag, which represents the unity of European
   nations, our star shines as well. The Ukrainian star.”

     10 years ago, we began a new chapter in our struggle. 10 years ago,
     Ukrainians launched their first counteroffensive. Against lawlessness
     and an attempt to rob us of our European future. Against unfreedom.

     Year after year, step by step, we make every effort to ensure that,…
     pic.twitter.com/HkEarZkbJB

     — Volodymyr Zelenskyy / Володимир Зеленський (@ZelenskyyUa) November 21,
     2023

   8:07AM

  Ukraine expands control on Dnipro's left bank

   Ukraine has expanded its control of the Dnipro river’s left bank, the
   Institute for the Study of War think tank has said.

   It cited reports by Russian bloggers that Ukrainian soldiers have advanced
   to the west of Krynky, where fighting continues.

   Commandos first crossed the river in October and Ukraine has since
   consolidated its bridgehead, pushing Russian forces back by as many as
   five miles.

   Securing the strategic advance would raise the prospect of further
   southward advances towards Crimea.

     Southern #Ukraine 🧵

     1/ #Ukrainian forces cont'd operations on the east (left) bank of
     #Kherson on Nov. 20 &amp; reportedly advanced.

     RU milbloggers claimed that UKR forces expanded their zone of control in
     the western part of Krynky &amp;that fighting is ongoing near the
     settlement. https://t.co/a8Sz1KOiwj pic.twitter.com/9dY0fyzorn

     — Institute for the Study of War (@TheStudyofWar) November 21, 2023

   7:46AM

  ISW: Russia using migrants to destabilise Nato on Finnish border

   Russia is using migrants to destabilise Nato on Finland’s border, the
   Institute for the Study of War think tank has said.

   Finland has closed four border crossings with Russia and has is
   considering shutting the remaining four after an influx of African and
   Middle Eastern migrants it says is being directed by Moscow.

   The ISW said Russia is doing so as part of a “hybrid warfare tactic” and
   is likely planning to portray Finland’s response to the migrant crisis as
   Nato aggression.

   “ISW has also consistently assessed that one of Putin’s goals in launching
   the full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022 was to break up Nato – a goal
   he continues to pursue,” it said.

   The think tank added that it was similar to the migrant crisis which
   Russia and Belarus created on Poland’s border in 2021 by funneling
   migrants towards it. 

   7:33AM

  US sanctions Russian officers for Bucha and Andriivka war crimes

   The US has sanctioned two Russian officers who killed civilians in Bucha
   and Andriivka at the beginning of the war in Ukraine.

   Colonel Azatbek Omurbekov, who is known as the butcher of Bucha, was the
   commanding officer of a Russian brigade that occupied Andriivka and Bucha,
   north of Kyiv, in early 2022.

   He killed, beat, dismembered, burned and conducted mock executions of
   civilians in Bucha, the US state department said. He was awarded Russia’s
   highest honour by Vladimir Putin in July 2022.

   Corporal Daniil Frolkin, a member of Col Omurbekov’s brigade, confessed to
   journalists in August 2022 that he killed a civilian in Andriivka in March
   2022. He was given a suspended five-and-a-half year sentence by a Russian
   military court for spreading “false information” about the army in March
   this year.

   Russian forces killed hundreds of civilians in Bucha and Andriivka.

   The American sanctions bar Col Omurbekov, Cpl Frolkin and their immediate
   families from entering the country.

   7:21AM

  German defence minister visits Kyiv

   German defence minister Boris Pistorius has made a surprise visit to Kyiv.

   He visited a memorial to the 2014 Euromaidan revolution on the 10th
   anniversary of the day it started, laying flowers in commemoration of
   those who died.

   “I am here again, firstly to pledge further support, but also to express
   our solidarity and deep bond and also our admiration for the courageous,
   brave and costly fight that is being waged here,” he said.

   Mr Pistorius is set to meet Volodomyr Zelensky and defence minister Rustem
   Umerov.

   Germany is the world’s second-largest provider of military aid to Ukraine
   after the US.

     * Zelensky calls for ‘rapid changes’ after sacking military commander
     * To defeat Russia once and for all, we must make Ukraine a member of
       Nato
     * Can Cameron fill Boris’s boots in Ukraine?
   Related Topics
     * Russia-Ukraine invasion live,
     * Russia-Ukraine war,
     * Ukraine,
     * Russia,
     * Vladimir Putin,
     * Volodymyr Zelenskyy
     * *  *  *  Comments

   The Telegraph values your comments but kindly requests all posts are on
   topic, constructive and respectful. Please review our commenting policy.
   You need to be a subscriber to join the conversation. Find out more here.
   Log In Subscribe
   Show comments
   Advertisement

More stories

More from World News

     * Charlotte Rampling denounces ‘public lynching’ of Gerard Depardieu
despite sex assault claims

       Depardieu, seen here with Rampling in 1996, has appeared in more than
       200 films
     * Behind the counter at the world’s last Blockbuster

       The last remaining Blockbuster video store in the world in Bend,
       Oregon
     * Second North Korean nuclear reactor appears to be operational, UN warns

       North Korean leader Kim Jong Un
     * Taiwan presidential frontrunner accuses opposition of being
‘pro-communist’

       Lai Ching-te, the ruling Democratic Progressive Party (DPP)
       presidential candidate, has criticised the Kuomintang (KMT) party
     * Watch: Russian warship sunk in suspected Storm Shadow missile attack

       Moscow admitted the 'Novocherkassk' large landing ship had been
       damaged by Kyiv
     * The mysterious whereabouts of Melania Trump

       Melania Trump appeared at only a handful of public events this year
       adding to speculation

More from The Telegraph

   Back to top
   Follow us on:
     * *  *  *  *  * * Help Centre
     * About us
     * Telegraph Extra
     * Reader Prints
     * Branded Content
     * Syndication and Commissioning
     * Guidelines
     * Privacy
     * Terms and Conditions
     * Advertising Terms
     * Fantasy Sport
     * UK Voucher Codes
     * Betting Offers
     * Modern Slavery
     * Tax Strategy
     * Broadband and Mobile Deals
     * Wine Cellar
     * The Chelsea Magazine Company
     * Newsletters
   © Telegraph Media Group Limited 2023
</text>
</page>§
</lang>
