   Link: https://sb.scorecardresearch.com/beacon.js
   Link: canonical
   Link: amphtml
   Skip Navigation
   logo
   [ Submit ]logo
   Markets
   Business
   Investing
   Tech
   Politics
   CNBC TV
   Watchlist
   Investing Club
   PRO
   Menu
     * Make It
     * select
          * ALL SELECT
          * Credit Cards

          * Loans

          * Banking

          * Mortgages

          * Insurance

          * Credit Monitoring

          * Personal Finance

          * Small Business

          * Taxes

          * Help for Low Credit Scores

          * Investing

     * USA
     * INTL
   Search quotes, news & videos
   Watchlist
   [ Submit ]
   SIGN IN
   [ Submit ]logo
   Markets
   Business
   Investing
   Tech
   Politics
   CNBC TV
   Watchlist
   Investing Club
   PRO
   Menu

   World Politics

       International Red Cross concludes release of 17 Gaza-held hostages

   Published Sat, Nov 25 20237:23 AM ESTUpdated Sat, Nov 25 20235:53 PM EST
   WATCH LIVE
   International Red Cross vehicles, carrying Israeli prisoners released from
   Gaza, are on their way to Rafah crossing under the 4 day deal in Gaza on
   November 24, 2023. 
   Mustafa Hassona | Anadolu | Getty Images

   The International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) said on Saturday it
   had concluded the release of 17 hostages held in Gaza.

   "Our teams have transported these 17 people from within Gaza to the Rafah
   border, where they were handed over to Israeli authorities," an ICRC
   spokesperson said in an email to Reuters. The ICRC team consisted of eight
   staff members, including a doctor, traveling in four vehicles, he said.

   The neutral, Swiss-based organization already facilitated the release and
   transfer of Gaza-held hostages and Palestinian detainees on Friday under
   the terms of a four-day truce.

   The Gaza hostage deal was back on track after a temporary delay over a
   dispute about aid supplies to the north of the besieged enclave.

   "13 Israelis and 4 foreigners were received by ICRC and on their way to
   Rafah," Qatar's foreign ministry spokesman, Majed Al Ansari, said on
   social media platform X, formerly known as Twitter.

   TV images showed Red Cross vehicles at Rafah crossing between Gaza and
   Egypt.

   A Palestinian official familiar with the diplomacy said Hamas would
   continue with the four-day truce agreed with Israel, the first break in
   fighting in seven weeks of war.

   Al Ansari earlier said a brief delay and obstacle to the hostage release
   were overcome through Qatari-Egyptian contacts with both sides, adding
   that 39 Palestinian civilians were going to be released in exchange.

   Among the Israeli hostages, eight were expected to be children and five
   others women, Al Ansari said, while the Palestinians to be released from
   Israeli prisons would consist of 33 children and six women.

   Read more about the war between Israel and Hamas:

     * Israeli-owned ship was targeted in suspected Iranian attack
     * Tens of thousands march in London calling for Gaza ceasefire
     * Biden says pause in fighting is critical to get aid to Gaza
     * Gaza economy in ruins as war sets development back decades

   U.S. President Joe Biden spoke to Qatar Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al
   Thani on the hold-up over the hostage deal, Adrienne Watson, spokesperson
   for the White House National Security Council, said. About 3-1/2 hours
   after their call, the White House learned from the Qataris that the
   agreement was back on and the International Committee of the Red Cross
   (ICRC) was moving to collect the hostages, Watson added.

   The armed wing of Hamas had earlier said it was delaying Saturday's
   scheduled second round of hostage releases until Israel met all truce
   conditions, including committing to let aid trucks into northern Gaza.

   Hamas spokesperson Osama Hamdan said only 65 of 340 aid trucks that had
   entered Gaza since Friday had reached northern Gaza, which was "less than
   half of what Israel agreed on."

   Al-Qassam Brigades also said Israel had failed to respect the terms of the
   Palestinian prisoner releases. Qadura Fares, the Palestinian commissioner
   for prisoners, said Israel had not released detainees by seniority, as was
   expected.

   Agriculture Minister Avi Dichter, a member of Israel's security cabinet,
   told Channel 13 News that Israel was "abiding by the deal" with Hamas that
   Qatar had mediated.

   Hostages released as part of a deal between Israel and Palestinian
   Islamist group Hamas arrive by helicopter at Schneider Children's Medical
   Center in Petah Tikva, Israel, November 24, 2023.
   Ronen Zvulun | Reuters

   Israel has said 50 trucks with food, water, shelter equipment and medical
   supplies had deployed to northern Gaza under UN supervision, the first
   significant aid delivery there since the start of the war.

   The brief dispute over the truce raised concerns over the smooth
   implementation of the hostage deal after 13 Israeli women and children
   were freed by Hamas on Friday. Some 39 Palestinian women and teenagers
   were released from Israeli jails.

   Israeli army spokesperson Olivier Rafowicz told French television Israel
   was strictly honoring the terms of the truce, and said the military had
   carried out no attacks or offensive operations in Gaza on Saturday.

Truce extended?

   A total of 50 hostages are to be exchanged for 150 Palestinian prisoners
   over four days under the truce, the first halt in fighting since Hamas
   fighters rampaged through southern Israel on Oct. 7, killing 1,200 people
   and taking about 240 hostages.

   In response to that attack, Israel has vowed to destroy the Hamas
   militants who run Gaza, raining bombs and shells on the enclave and
   launching a ground offensive in the north. To date, some 14,800 people,
   roughly 40% of them children, have been killed, Palestinian health
   authorities said on Saturday.

   Before the delay to the latest hostage and prisoner exchange, Egypt, which
   controls the Rafah border crossing through which aid supplies have resumed
   into southern Gaza, said it had received "positive signals" from all
   parties over a possible truce extension.

   Egyptian Red Crescent members load on a truck humanitarian aid for
   war-torn Gaza brought by a French air force Airbus A400M cargo aircraft at
   El-Arish International Airport on November 20, 2023.
   Thomas Samson | Afp | Getty Images

   Israel has said the ceasefire could be extended if Hamas continues to
   release hostages at a rate of at least 10 per day. A Palestinian source
   has said up to 100 hostages could go free.

Dancing for joy

   The short-lived row over the truce accord's implementation contrasted with
   scenes of joy earlier in the day as hostages were reunited with their
   families.

   After almost 50 days in captivity in Gaza, nine-year-old Ohad Munder ran
   down a hospital corridor in Israel into his father's arms, footage
   released by the hospital showed.

   He and three other children released at the same time were in relatively
   good condition, Gilat Livni, the center's Director of Paediatrics told
   reporters.

   "They shared experiences, we were up with them until late at night and it
   was interesting, upsetting and moving," said Livni.

   "I dreamt we came home," said another hostage, four-year-old Raz Asher, as
   she sat in her father's arms on a hospital bed after she and her mother
   and younger sister were freed. "Now the dream came true," her father,
   Yoni, replied.

   For Palestinians, however, joy at the release of prisoners from Israeli
   jails had a bitter tinge to it. Israeli police were seen raiding the home
   of Sawsan Bkeer on Friday shortly before her daughter Marah, 24, was
   released. Israeli police declined to comment.

   "There is no real joy, even this little joy we feel as we wait," said
   Sawsan Bkeer. "We are still afraid to feel happy," she said.

   logo
     * Subscribe to CNBC PRO
     * Subscribe to Investing Club
     * Licensing & Reprints
     * CNBC Councils
     * Supply Chain Values
     * CNBC on Peacock
     * Join the CNBC Panel
     * Digital Products
     * News Releases
     * Closed Captioning
     * Corrections
     * About CNBC
     * Internships
     * Site Map
     * Ad Choices
     * Careers
     * Help
     * Contact
     * * * * * * * News Tips

   Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you.

   Get In Touch

    Advertise With Us

   Please Contact Us

    CNBC Newsletters

   Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox

   Sign Up Now

   Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and
   services. 

   Privacy Policy|California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) Opt-Out Icon|CA
   Notice|Terms of Service

   © 2023 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal

   Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global
   Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis.

   Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers

   Data also provided by Reuters

   comscore
