   Link: canonical
   Link: amphtml
   Link: alternate x-default
   Link: alternate en-gb
   Link: alternate en
   BBC Homepage
     * Skip to content
     * Accessibility Help
     * Your account
     * Home
     * News
     * Sport
     * Earth
     * Reel
     * Worklife
     * Travel
     * More menu
   More menu
   Search BBC
     * Home
     * News
     * Sport
     * Earth
     * Reel
     * Worklife
     * Travel
     * Culture
     * Future
     * Music
     * TV
     * Weather
     * Sounds
   Close menu
   BBC News
   Menu
     * Home
     * Israel-Gaza war
     * War in Ukraine
     * Climate
     * Video
     * World
     * UK
     * Business
     * Tech
     * Science
   More
     * Entertainment & Arts
     * Health
     * World News TV
     * In Pictures
     * BBC Verify
     * Newsbeat
     * World
     * Africa
     * Asia
     * Australia
     * Europe
     * Latin America
     * Middle East
     * US & Canada

           What is Hamas and why is it fighting with Israel in Gaza?

     * Published
       4 days ago
   Share
   close panel
   Share page
   Copy link
   About sharing
   Related Topics
     * Israel-Gaza war
   A woman holding a child pictured after an Israeli strike in Rafah in the
   southern Gaza Strip on 23 NovemberImage source, Getty Images

   Hamas gunmen launched an unprecedented assault on Israel from the Gaza
   Strip on 7 October, killing 1,200 people and taking about 240 hostages.

   The Israeli military responded with air strikes on Gaza, and launched a
   ground offensive. More than 20,000 people have been killed in Gaza,
   according to the Hamas-run government.

   During a temporary truce at the end of November, Hamas released 105
   hostages and Israel freed 240 Palestinian prisoners in exchange.

What is the goal of Israel's military operation in Gaza?

   Since the 7 October attacks, Israel Defense Forces (IDF) warplanes have
   carried out air strikes across Gaza while its troops have moved through
   the territory.

   Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Israel had a "clear goal of
   destroying Hamas's military and governing capabilities", as well as
   freeing the hostages.

   Israel, the UK, US and other Western powers class Hamas as a terrorist
   organisation.

   Mr Netanyahu also declared that Israel would have "overall security
   responsibility" for Gaza "for an indefinite period" after the conflict.
   However, he later said Israel had no plans to reoccupy the territory.

   Israel drafted 300,000 reservists for the operation, boosting its standing
   force of 160,000.

     * Israel determined to finish job despite Gaza suffering
     * What Gaza's death toll says about the war

What is happening on the ground in Gaza?

   The IDF says it has struck more than 22,000 targets since 7 October.

   It also says it has destroyed more than 800 tunnel shafts built underneath
   Gaza. Hamas previously claimed that its tunnel network stretches for 500km
   (310 miles).

   Satellite images suggest that nearly 100,000 buildings in Gaza may have
   been damaged during the fighting.

   Hamas has continued to fire rockets from Gaza into Israel.

   Map showing damage to northern Gaza as at 16 December 2023
   line

   After the temporary truce ended, Israeli troops pushed into southern Gaza
   and began operations against Hamas and other armed groups in and around
   the city of Khan Younis.

   Israel has also carried out many air strikes on Rafah, near the Egyptian
   border, where it previously told residents of Khan Younis to flee.

   Fierce fighting continues in the north, around the Jabalia refugee camp
   and the eastern Shejaiya district of Gaza City. The UN estimates that
   100,000 civilians remain in the north.

   Israel claims to have killed thousands of Hamas fighters during the war,
   including many commanders.

   The IDF says 134 Israeli soldiers have been killed since the start of the
   ground offensive on 27 October. In total, 466 soldiers have been killed
   since 7 October - most of them during Hamas's attacks that day.

     * 'I don't want to be a number': Gazans live in fear of dying
     * Gaza Strip in maps: How life has changed in two months

Who are the hostages and how many have been freed?

   During the 7 October attacks, Hamas took about 240 hostages, who it said
   were hidden in "safe places and tunnels" within Gaza.

   Israel said more than 30 of the hostages were children, and at least 10
   were aged over 60. It also said about half of the hostages had foreign
   passports from 25 different countries.

   Under a deal brokered by Qatar, a seven-day pause in fighting began on 24
   November.

   A Palestinian teen hugs a family member after being releasedImage source,
   ATEF SAFADI/EPA-EFE/REX/Shutterstock
   Image caption,
   Large crowds have been gathering in the occupied West Bank to greet
   Palestinians released from Israeli jails

   During the truce, 81 Israelis and dual nationals were released, along with
   24 foreigners. In return for the Israeli hostages, 240 Palestinians were
   free from Israeli jails.

   The released hostages included:

     * 78 Israeli women and children
     * 23 Thais and one Filipino
     * 3 Russian-Israelis

   Hamas let four Israeli hostages go before the truce, and another was freed
   by Israeli forces.

   Israeli troops mistakenly shot dead three hostages who were displaying a
   white flag in Gaza on 15 December.

   It is thought about 120 people are still in captivity.

   Hamas has said other armed groups in Gaza are holding hostages, including
   Palestinian Islamic Jihad. This could complicate future releases.

     * The man held with the hostages Israel mistakenly killed
     * Released Palestinians allege abuse in Israeli jails

Why did the pause in fighting end, and will another be agreed?

   Each side blamed the other for the collapse of the truce and resumption of
   fighting on 1 December.

   Mr Netanyahu said Hamas had not "met its obligation to release all of the
   women hostages", and had "launched rockets at Israeli citizens".

   Hamas said Israel had refused "to accept all offers to release other
   hostages".

   On 13 December, the UN General Assembly passed a non-binding resolution
   calling for an "immediate humanitarian ceasefire", as well as the "the
   immediate and unconditional release of all hostages".

   Five days earlier, the US had vetoed a similar draft resolution at the UN
   Security Council (UNSC), saying a ceasefire would allow Hamas to regroup.

   A further UNSC vote for a ceasefirehas been repeatedly postponed because
   of disputes over the wording of the resolution.

   A woman cries as she hugs an injured man after an Israeli air strike on
   Rafah, southern Gaza. Photo: 12 December 2023Image source, Reuters
   Image caption,
   A woman cries as she hugs an injured man after an Israeli air strike on
   Rafah in southern Gaza on 12 December

   Separately, Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh has been attending talks in Cairo
   about another possible ceasefire.

   However, on 21 December, Hamas said that all the armed Palestinian groups
   had rejected the prospect of more hostages being released unless Israel
   agreed to end the war in Gaza.

     * Talks on new pause in Gaza war gain urgency

What is the humanitarian situation in Gaza?

   As well as the more than 20,000 people reported killed, the Hamas-run
   health ministry says 52,600 people have been injured since the start of
   the war.

   The World Health Organization (WHO) says only nine out of Gaza's 36
   hospitals are still partially functional, all of them in the south. These
   hospitals are operating at three times their capacity, while facing
   critical shortages of basic supplies and fuel for their generators.

   Mr Netanyahu has admitted that Israel has been "not successful" in
   minimising civilian casualties, but says Hamas has been using Gaza's
   civilians as human shields.

   Palestinians line up for flour being distributed by the UN agency for
   Palestinian refugees (UNRWA) in Deir Al Balah, Gaza on 7 December,
   2023Image source, Getty Images
   Image caption,
   Food supplies are scarce, and there is overwhelming demand for the limited
   amount of flour distributed by the UN

   Food is scarce in Gaza and prices have soared, meaning many people are
   unable to afford staples such as flour. A lack of power makes cooking
   difficult.

   According to Unrwa, the UN agency for Palestinian refugees, 1.9 million
   Gazan residents - about 85% of the population - have been displaced, and
   1.4 million of them are sheltering in its facilities.

   Many of them fled the fighting in the north after an Israeli order to move
   south of the Wadi Gaza river valley for their own safety.

   Tens of thousands have moved to Rafah to escape the fighting. The UN says
   there are at least 486 people for every toilet in its shelters there.

   Map showing areas of the southern Gaza Strip that the Israeli military has
   told residents to evacuate (10 December 2023)

   Israel's military published an online map with Gaza split into more than
   600 blocks, showing areas where people should evacuate for their own
   safety.

   But Unicef, the UN charity for children, warned that some of the "safe"
   zones were "tiny patches of barren land" with no water, sanitation or
   shelter.

     * 'I walked my kids past rotting corpses'
     * Half of Gaza's population is starving, warns UN
     * Gaza 'safe zone' for millions smaller than Heathrow

Is humanitarian aid getting into Gaza?

   After the 7 October attacks, Israel shut its border crossings with Gaza,
   preventing the usual supplies of food, water, and medicine from entering
   the territory.

   Israel allowed limited aid deliveries to resume via the
   Egyptian-controlled Rafah border crossing on 21 October. However, the UN
   says the number of lorries entering each day has been about a fifth of the
   daily average of 500 before the war.

   Israel has severely limited supplies of fuel, arguing that it could be
   stolen by Hamas and used for military purposes.

   Fuel shortages have meant that water pumps and desalination plants, waste
   and sanitation services, and many bakeries have been unable to function.

   An aid truck moves through the Kerem Shalom crossing from Israel to
   GazaImage source, Getty Images
   Image caption,
   The reopening of the Kerem Shalom crossing provides another route to get
   aid into Gaza

   On 17 December, Israel reopened the Kerem Shalom goods crossing with Gaza,
   allowing another route for aid to enter the territory.

   However, the UN says it is struggling to distribute aid beyond the Rafah
   area. blaming a shortage of lorries, the lack of fuel, frequent
   telecommunications blackouts and the dangers of travelling through areas
   where there is fighting.

   Hundreds of foreign passport holders - including some British and US
   citizens - and seriously wounded and sick Palestinians have been able to
   leave through Rafah, but many remain.

     * Scramble for basics: 'We've queued for gas for three days'

What happened during the Hamas 7 October attacks on Israel?

   On 7 October, hundreds of Hamas gunmen crossed from the Gaza Strip into
   southern Israel, breaking through the heavily guarded perimeter fence,
   landing by sea, and using paragliders.

   It was the most serious cross-border attack against Israel in more than a
   generation.

   The gunmen killed about 1,200 people, most of them civilians, in a series
   of raids on military posts, kibbutzim and a music festival, and took
   hostages back into Gaza.

   The BBC has also seen and heard evidence of rape, sexual violence and
   mutilation of women during the Hamas attacks, Victims included children,
   teenagers and pensioners.

   A young women kneels at a vigil for the hostages in the Israeli city of
   Tel AvivImage source, Getty Images
   Image caption,
   A young women kneels at a vigil for the hostages in the Israeli city of
   Tel Aviv

   The attacks came at a time of soaring Israeli-Palestinian tensions: 2023
   has been the deadliest on record for Palestinians who live in the
   Israeli-occupied West Bank.

     * How Hamas built a force to attack Israel on 7 October

What is Hamas and what does it want?

   Hamas is a Palestinian group which has run Gaza since 2007.

   The name is an acronym for Harakat al-Muqawama al-Islamiya, which means
   Islamic Resistance Movement.

   The group wants to destroy Israel and replace it with an Islamic state.

   Yahya Sinwar in 2021Image source, EPA
   Image caption,
   Yahya Sinwar, leader of Hamas's political wing in Gaza, pictured in 2021

   Its military wing, the Izzedine al-Qassam Brigades, is thought to have
   about 30,000 members.

   Hamas has fought several wars with Israel since it took power, firing
   thousands of rockets into Israel and carrying out other deadly attacks.

   In response, Israel has repeatedly attacked Hamas with air strikes,
   sending in troops in 2008 and 2014.

   Hamas - or in some cases the al-Qassam Brigades - has been designated a
   terrorist group by Israel, the US, the EU and the UK, as well as other
   powers.

   Iran backs the group, providing funding, weapons and training.

     * Who is the Hamas leader in Gaza, Yahya Sinwar?
     * Who are the leaders of Hamas?

Where is the Gaza Strip and how big is it?

   The Gaza Strip is a 41km (25-mile) long and 10km-wide territory located
   between Israel, Egypt and the Mediterranean Sea.

   Map showing Israel and the Palestinian Territories and surrounding
   countries

   Previously occupied by Egypt, Gaza was captured by Israel during the 1967
   Six-Day War.

   Israel withdrew its troops and around 7,000 settlers from the territory in
   2005.

   Home to 2.2 million people, the narrow strip is one of the most
   densely-populated areas in the world.

   Just over three-quarters of Gaza's population - some 1.7 million people -
   are registered refugees or descendants of refugees, according to the UN.

   Before the latest conflict, more than 500,000 people lived in eight
   refugee camps located across the Strip.

   Israel controls the air space over Gaza and its shoreline, and strictly
   limits the movement of people and goods.

     * Israel Gaza war: History of the conflict explained

What is Palestine?

   The West Bank and Gaza are known as the Palestinian territories. Along
   with East Jerusalem and Israel, they formed part of a land known as
   Palestine from Roman times until the mid-20th Century.

   In 1948, part of Palestine became Israel, which was recognised by the
   United Nations the following year. The West Bank (including East
   Jerusalem) and Gaza are recognised as Palestine by many countries and
   bodies, although it does not have member status at the UN.

   Those who do not recognise Israel's right to exist also still refer to all
   of the land as Palestine.

   The Palestinian president is Mahmoud Abbas, also known as Abu Mazen. He is
   based in the West Bank, which is under Israeli occupation.

   He has been the leader of the Palestinian Authority (PA) since 2005, and
   represents the Fatah political party - a bitter rival of Hamas.

     * Hamas support soars in West Bank - but full uprising can still be
       avoided

Related Topics

     * Israel & the Palestinians
     * Israel-Gaza war
     * Israel
     * Gaza
     * Fatah
     * Mahmoud Abbas
     * Hamas

Top Stories

     * Russia confirms damage to warship in Black Sea

          * Published
            55 minutes ago
     * UN says no let-up in Israeli air strikes in Gaza

          * Published
            12 hours ago
     * Russia captures key town near Donetsk

          * Published
            38 minutes ago

Features

     * Letters of forbidden love revealed in Spanish archive

       Envelopes and letters
     * Amazon drought: 'We've never seen anything like this'

       Oliveira Tikuna sitting in a canoe
     * India's power-hitting global women's cricket star

       : Harmanpreet Kaur of India poses for a portrait prior to the ICC
       Women's T20 World Cup South Africa 2023 on February 05, 2023 in
       Stellenbosch, South Africa. (Photo by Jan Kruger-ICC/ICC via Getty
       Images)
     * * 'I went into 'dad mode' after my wife was killed'

       Emma and Lee Lovell
     * 15 celebrity flops and fails of 2023

       Harrison Ford and Phoebe Waller-Bridge attend the "Indiana Jones And
       The Dial Of Destiny" photocall at the 76th annual Cannes film festival
       at Palais des Festivals on May 19, 2023 in Cannes, France
     * Why has it taken 15 years for UK to have a black Premier League ref?

       Sam Allison will become the first black referee of a Premier League
       match in 15 years when he takes charge of Sheffield United v Luton
       Town
     * The Ukrainian frontline city Russia could seize again

       Svitlana
     * In pictures: Christmas around the world

       A child kisses the feet of a statue depicting the infant Jesus Christ
       after offering prayers during Christmas Holy Mass, at Santhome
       Cathedral Basilica, in Chennai, India, 25 December 2023.
     * Nigeria’s viral ballet boy dances into elite school

       Anthony Madu in a dance studio at Elmhurst Ballet School

Elsewhere on the BBC

     * Did drinking tea save British lives?

       drinking tea
     * The 'vibecession' driving holiday mass layoffs

       Spotify
     * Why olive oil prices are soaring

       bottle

Most Read

    1. 1
       Russia confirms damage to warship in Black Sea
    2. 2
       Russia captures key town near Donetsk
    3. 3
       15 celebrity flops and fails of 2023
    4. 4
       Unaccompanied boy, 6, put on wrong US flight
    5. 5
       Hanif Kureishi: I've become a reluctant dictator
    6. 6
       Chinese chess champion suspended for bad behaviour
    7. 7
       Man held in France after mother and children killed
    8. 8
       'I went into 'dad mode' after my wife was killed'
    9. 9
       Daihatsu pauses production over safety scandal
   10. 10
       Girl, 7, with brain tumour meets Queen for tea

BBC News Services

     * On your mobile
     * On smart speakers
     * Get news alerts
     * Contact BBC News
     * Home
     * News
     * Sport
     * Earth
     * Reel
     * Worklife
     * Travel
     * Culture
     * Future
     * Music
     * TV
     * Weather
     * Sounds
     * Terms of Use
     * About the BBC
     * Privacy Policy
     * Cookies
     * Accessibility Help
     * Parental Guidance
     * Contact the BBC
     * Get Personalised Newsletters
     * Why you can trust the BBC
     * Advertise with us

   © 2023 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.
   Read about our approach to external linking.
