   #United States Department of State » Feed alternate alternate alternate

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-T9WK49Q

   Skip to content
   An official website of the United States Government Here's how you know

   Official websites use .gov
   A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the
   United States.

   Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
   A lock ( ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov
   website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.

     * Newsroom
     * Business
     * Employees
     * Job Seekers
     * Students
     * Travelers
     * Visas

   Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Flickr GovDelivery

     * Menu
     * [Logo_White_M.png] State Department Home
     * (search) search

     * State Department Home
     * (BUTTON) Policy Issues
          + (BUTTON) Back
          + Policy Issues
            Anti-Corruption and Transparency
            Arms Control and Nonproliferation
            Climate and Environment
            Climate Crisis
            Combating Drugs and Crime
            Countering Terrorism
            COVID-19 Response and Recovery
            Cyber Issues
            Disarming Disinformation
            Economic Prosperity and Trade Policy
            Energy
            Global Health
            Global Women’s Issues
            Holding Russia and Belarus to Account
            Human Rights and Democracy
            Human Trafficking
            The Ocean and Polar Affairs
            Refugee and Humanitarian Assistance
            Science, Technology, and Innovation
            Treaties and International Agreements
            United with Ukraine
     * (BUTTON) Countries & Areas
          + (BUTTON) Back
          + Countries & Areas
            Search for country or area [A_______________________________]
     * (BUTTON) Bureaus & Offices
          + (BUTTON) Back
          + Bureaus & Offices
               o (BUTTON______________) The Secretary of State
                    # (BUTTON) The Secretary of State
                    # The Secretary of State
                    # Bureau of Global Health Security and Diplomacy
                    # Bureau of Intelligence and Research
                    # Bureau of Legislative Affairs
                    # Counselor of the Department
                    # Executive Secretariat
                    # Office of the Chief of Protocol
                    # Office of Civil Rights
                    # Office of Diversity and Inclusion
                    # Office of Global Women’s Issues
                    # Office of the Legal Adviser
                    # Office of the Ombudsman
                    # Office of the Special Envoy for Critical and
                      Emerging Technology
                    # Office of the U.S. Special Coordinator for the
                      Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment
                    # Office of the U.S. Special Presidential Envoy for
                      Climate
                    # Policy Planning Staff
                    # Special Presidential Envoy for Hostage Affairs
                    # Special Envoy for Iran
                    # Special Representative for Syria Engagement
                    # Special Representative for Venezuela
                    # U.S. Security Coordinator for Israel and the
                      Palestinian Authority
               o (BUTTON______________) Deputy Secretaries of State
                    # (BUTTON) Deputy Secretaries of State
                    # Deputy Secretary of State
                    # Bureau of Cyberspace and Digital Policy
                    # Office of the U.S. Coordinator for the Arctic Region
                    # Deputy Secretary of State for Management and
                      Resources
                    # Office of Foreign Assistance
                    # Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business
                      Utilization
               o (BUTTON______________) Arms Control and International
                 Security
                    # (BUTTON) Arms Control and International Security
                    # Under Secretary for Arms Control and International
                      Security
                    # Bureau of Arms Control, Deterrence, and Stability
                    # Bureau of International Security and
                      Nonproliferation
                    # Bureau of Political-Military Affairs
               o (BUTTON______________) Civilian Security, Democracy, and
                 Human Rights
                    # (BUTTON) Civilian Security, Democracy, and Human
                      Rights
                    # Under Secretary for Civilian Security, Democracy,
                      and Human Rights
                    # Bureau of Conflict and Stabilization Operations
                    # Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor
                    # Bureau of International Narcotics and Law
                      Enforcement Affairs
                    # Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration
                    # Office of Global Criminal Justice
                    # Office of International Religious Freedom
                    # Office of the Special Envoy To Monitor and Combat
                      Antisemitism
                    # Office of the U.S. Special Coordinator for Tibetan
                      Issues
                    # Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons
               o (BUTTON______________) Economic Growth, Energy, and
                 Environment
                    # (BUTTON) Economic Growth, Energy, and Environment
                    # Under Secretary for Economic Growth, Energy, and the
                      Environment
                    # Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs
                    # Bureau of Energy Resources
                    # Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and
                      Scientific Affairs
                    # Office of Global Food Security
                    # Office of Global Partnerships
                    # Office of the Chief Economist
                    # Office of the Science and Technology Adviser
               o (BUTTON______________) Management
                    # (BUTTON) Management
                    # Under Secretary for Management
                    # Bureau of Administration
                    # Bureau of Budget and Planning
                    # Bureau of the Comptroller and Global Financial
                      Services
                    # Bureau of Consular Affairs
                    # Bureau of Diplomatic Security
                    # Bureau of Global Talent Management
                    # Bureau of Information Resource Management
                    # Bureau of Medical Services
                    # Bureau of Overseas Buildings Operations
                    # Director of Diplomatic Reception Rooms
                    # Foreign Service Institute
                    # Office of Foreign Missions
                    # Office of Management Strategy and Solutions
               o (BUTTON______________) Political Affairs
                    # (BUTTON) Political Affairs
                    # Under Secretary for Political Affairs
                    # Bureau of African Affairs
                    # Bureau of Counterterrorism
                    # Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs
                    # Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs
                    # Bureau of International Organization Affairs
                    # Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs
                    # Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs
                    # Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs
               o (BUTTON______________) Public Diplomacy and Public
                 Affairs
                    # (BUTTON) Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs
                    # Under Secretary for Public Diplomacy and Public
                      Affairs
                    # Educational and Cultural Affairs
                    # Expo Unit
                    # Global Engagement Center
                    # Global Public Affairs
                    # Office of Global Youth Issues
                    # Policy, Planning, and Resources
                    # U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy
     * (BUTTON) About
          + (BUTTON) Back
          + About
            Mission
            About the U.S. Department of State
            Joint Strategic Plan
            Equity Action Plan
            Foreign Affairs Manual and Handbook
            Department of State by State Map
            DipNote Blog
            We Are the U.S. Department of State
            History
            Previous Administration Archives
            Foreign Relations of the United States
            National Museum of American Diplomacy
            Art in Embassies
            Administrative
            Department Reports and Publications
            Agency Financial Reports
            Form Finder
            Organization Chart
            Plans, Performance, Budget
            Information Quality Act
            Open Government Initiative
            Data Informed Diplomacy
            Digital Government Strategy
            Plain Writing Program
            Partner With State
            Leadership
            The Secretary of State
            Deputy Secretary of State
            Deputy Secretary of State for Management and Resources
            Biographies of Senior Officials
            Directories
            Contact Us
            Telephone Directory
            U.S. Ambassadors
            U.S. Embassies and Other Posts
            Country Offices Directory
            Key Officers of Foreign Service Posts
            Diplomats in Residence

   HomeOffice of the SpokespersonPress Releases...Russia’s Strategic
   Failure and Ukraine’s Secure Future
   hide

Russia’s Strategic Failure and Ukraine’s Secure Future

   Speech

   Antony J. Blinken, Secretary of State

   Helsinki City Hall

   Helsinki, Finland

   June 2, 2023

   MAYOR VARTIAINEN:  Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, dear
   friends, it is my great pleasure to warmly welcome you all to the
   beautiful capital of Finland, Helsinki, and the Helsinki City Hall.
   Helsinki has a great honor to host this special event today.  We are
   humbled and in great appreciation to have the U.S. Secretary of State
   Antony J. Blinken here in Helsinki.

   Helsinki is a city where the harmonious blend of history, innovation,
   freedom, and diplomacy converges.  Our capital is and has been an arena
   for numerous high-level meetings and political events, and we are proud
   to provide the platform for this historical moment, now for the first
   time as the proud capital of a new NATO Ally.

   Now it is my great pleasure to introduce you the co-organizer of the
   event, Dr. Mika Aaltola, the director of the Finnish Institute of
   International Affairs.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

   MR AALTOLA:  Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, this is a truly
   historical day.  It is the first time that a United States secretary of
   state stands on the solid granite ground of NATO Finland.  Secretary
   Blinken’s visit represents a new era in the Finnish-U.S. relations that
   have long historical ties.  Never before have the relations between our
   two countries been this close.

   In addition to now being NATO Allies, Finland and the United States are
   working together to enhance our bilateral defense cooperation.  Also,
   economic cooperation has increased significantly as the U.S. became
   Finland’s number one trade partner last year.

   While physically separated by an ocean, our countries are bound by ties
   that surpass distance.  We face common security challenges, but even
   more importantly, we share a belief in democracy, in our common values
   and shared interests.

   These values are being challenged by Russia’s brutal invasion of
   Ukraine.  With the level of economic and military support it has
   offered to Ukraine, the United States remains the indispensable force
   in Europe.  The U.S. was already awake when most of Europe was still
   sleeping, relatively undisturbed by Russia’s power political gaming.
   U.S. leadership is as needed as ever.

   This leadership helps to keep doors open and enemies at bay, but there
   would be no leadership without a partnership.  This partnership is
   something that Finland has offered to the United States.  Finland is an
   able ally and a security provider.  We carry our responsibilities in
   our region and beyond, and we are committed to support Ukraine and to
   defend ourselves and the values we stand for.  This commitment is
   shared by the Finnish leadership but, even more importantly, by the
   Finnish people.

   Finland has ranked as the least corrupt, most egalitarian, one of the
   most educated, and most democratic countries in the world.  It also is
   the most stable country in the world.  In these volatile times, this
   stability has a value of its own.  Surprisingly for many Finns, Finland
   is also the happiest country in the world.  We question this result
   every year, but it is pointed to us that it is the case.  It is a fact,
   so how miserable others must be if we are the happiest.  (Laughter.)

   But now I’m truly happy to be able to welcome on the stage with United
   States Secretary of State Mr. Antony Blinken.  (Applause.)

   SECRETARY BLINKEN:  Thank you.  Thank you very much.  And yes, I feel a
   greater sense of happiness today than I’ve felt in a long time.
   (Laughter.)

   Mayor Vartiainen, thank you for hosting us here in Helsinki, and in
   this absolutely magnificent city hall.

   And Mika, my thanks to you, and also to your entire team – all of the
   researchers at the Finnish Institute of International Affairs, for
   deepening the scholarship about diplomacy, and also enriching the
   public debate.

   I’m also gratified that my friend and my partner, Pekka Haavisto, is
   here with us today.  We have worked so closely together over this past
   truly historic year, and I’m grateful for your presence.

   To all of the distinguished guests, two months ago, I stood with our
   Allies in Brussels as Finland’s flag was raised over NATO headquarters
   for the first time.  President Niinistö declared, and I quote, “The era
   of military nonalignment in Finland has come to an end.  A new era
   begins.”

   It was a sea change that would have been unthinkable a little more than
   a year earlier.  Before Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine, one in
   four Finns supported the country joining NATO.  After the full-scale
   invasion, three in four Finns supported joining.

   It wasn’t hard for Finns to imagine themselves in the Ukrainians’
   shoes.  They’d walked in them in November 1939, when the Soviet Union
   invaded Finland.

   Like President Putin’s so-called “special operation” against Ukraine,
   the USSR’s so-called “liberation operation” falsely accused Finland of
   provoking the invasion.

   Like the Russians with Kyiv, the Soviets were confident that they’d
   sack Helsinki in weeks – so confident that they had Dmitri Shostakovich
   compose music for the victory parade, before the Winter War even
   started.

   Like Putin in Ukraine, when Stalin failed to overcome the Finns’ fierce
   and determined resistance, he shifted to a strategy of terror,
   incinerating entire villages and bombing so many hospitals from the air
   that Finns started covering up the Red Cross insignia on the rooftops.

   Like the millions of Ukrainian refugees today, hundreds of thousands of
   Finns were driven from their homes by the Soviet invasion.  They
   included two children, Pirkko and Henri, whose families evacuated their
   homes in Karelia – the mother and father of our host, the mayor of the
   city.

   To many Finns, the parallels between 1939 and 2022 were striking.  They
   were visceral.  And they were not wrong.

   Finns understood that if Russia violated the core principles of the UN
   Charter – sovereignty, territorial integrity, independence – if they
   did that in Ukraine, it will imperil their own peace and security as
   well.

   We understood that, too.  That’s why, over the course of 2021, as
   Russia ratcheted up its threats against Kyiv and amassed more and more
   troops, tanks, and planes on Ukraine’s borders, we made every effort to
   get Moscow to de-escalate its manufactured crisis and resolve its
   issues through diplomacy.

   President Biden told President Putin that we were prepared to discuss
   our mutual security concerns – a message that I reaffirmed repeatedly –
   including in person, with Foreign Minister Lavrov.  We offered written
   proposals to reduce tensions.  Together with our allies and partners,
   we used every forum to try to prevent war, from the NATO-Russia Council
   to the OSCE, from the UN to our direct channels.

   Across these engagements, we set out two possible paths for Moscow: a
   path of diplomacy, which could lead to greater security for Ukraine,
   for Russia, for all of Europe; or a path of aggression, which would
   result in severe consequences for the Russian Government.

   President Biden made clear that regardless of which path President
   Putin chose, we would be ready.  And if Russia chose war, we would do
   three things: support Ukraine, impose severe costs on Russia, and
   strengthen NATO while rallying our allies and partners around these
   goals.

   As the storm clouds gathered, we surged military, economic, and
   humanitarian assistance to Ukraine.  First in August 2021, and again in
   December, we sent military equipment to bolster Ukraine’s defenses,
   including Javelins and Stingers.  And we deployed a team from the U.S.
   Cyber Command to help Ukraine shore up its power grid and other
   critical infrastructure against cyber attacks.

   We prepared an unprecedented set of sanctions, export controls, other
   economic costs to impose severe and immediate consequences on Russia in
   the event of a full-scale invasion.

   We took steps to leave no doubt that we, and our Allies, would uphold
   our commitment to defend every inch of NATO territory.

   And we worked relentlessly to rally allies and partners around helping
   Ukraine defend itself and denying Putin his strategic aims.

   Since day one of his administration, President Biden has focused on
   rebuilding and revitalizing America’s alliances and partnerships,
   knowing that we’re stronger when we work alongside those who share our
   interests and our values.

   In the run-up to Russia’s invasion, we demonstrated the power of those
   partnerships – coordinating our planning and strategy for a potential
   invasion with NATO, with the EU, with the G7, and other allies and
   partners from around the world.

   Over those fateful weeks in January and February of 2022, it became
   clear that no amount of diplomatic effort was going to change President
   Putin’s mind.  He would choose war.

   And so, on February 17, 2022, I went before the United Nations Security
   Council to warn the world that Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine
   was imminent.

   I set out the steps that Russia would take:  first manufacturing a
   pretext, and then using missiles, tanks, troops, cyber attacks to
   strike pre-identified targets, including Kyiv, with the aim of toppling
   Ukraine’s democratically elected government and erasing Ukraine from
   the map as an independent country.

   We hoped – we hoped – to be proven wrong.

   Unfortunately, we were right.  A week after my warning to the Security
   Council, President Putin invaded.  Ukrainians of all walks of life –
   soldiers and citizens, men and women, young and old – bravely defended
   their nation.

   And the United States moved swiftly, decisively, and in unison with
   allies and partners to do exactly what we said we’d do: support
   Ukraine, impose costs on Russia, strengthen NATO – all of this with our
   allies and partners.

   And with our collective support, Ukraine did what it said it would do:
   defended its territory, its independence, its democracy.

   Today, what I want to do is set out this and the many other ways
   Putin’s war of aggression against Ukraine has been a strategic failure,
   greatly diminishing Russia’s power, its interests, and its influence
   for years to come.  And I’ll also share our vision of the path to a
   just and lasting peace.

   When you look at President Putin’s long-term strategic aims and
   objectives, there is no question:  Russia is significantly worse off
   today than it was before its full-scale invasion of Ukraine –
   militarily, economically, geopolitically.

   Where Putin aimed to project strength, he’s revealed weakness.  Where
   he sought to divide, he’s united.  What he tried to prevent, he’s
   precipitated.  That outcome is no accident. It’s the direct result of
   the courage and solidarity of the Ukrainian people and the deliberate,
   decisive, swift action that we and our partners have taken to support
   Ukraine.

   First, for years, President Putin sought to weaken and divide NATO,
   under the false claim that it posed a threat to Russia.  In fact,
   before Russia invaded Crimea and eastern Ukraine in 2014, NATO’s
   posture reflected a shared conviction that conflict in Europe was
   unlikely.  The United States had significantly reduced its forces in
   Europe since the end of the Cold War, from 315,000 in 1989 to 61,000 at
   the end of 2013.  Many European countries’ spending on defense had been
   declining for years.  NATO’s strategic doctrine at the time labeled
   Russia a partner.

   Following Russia’s invasion of Crimea and the Donbas in 2014, that tide
   began to turn.  Allies committed to spend two percent of GDP on defense
   and deployed new forces to NATO’s eastern flank in response to Russia’s
   aggression.   The Alliance has accelerated its transformation since
   Russia’s full-scale invasion – not to pose a threat or because NATO
   seeks conflict.  NATO always has been – and always will be – a
   defensive alliance.  But Russia’s aggression, threats, nuclear
   saber-rattling compelled us to reinforce our deterrence and defense.

   Hours after the full-scale invasion, we activated NATO’s defensive
   Response Force. In the weeks that followed, several Allies – including
   the United Kingdom, Germany, the Netherlands, Denmark, Spain, France –
   swiftly sent troops, aircraft, and ships to reinforce NATO’s eastern
   flank.  We doubled the number of ships patrolling the North and Baltic
   seas, and doubled the number of battle groups in the region.  The
   United States established its first permanent military presence in
   Poland.  And, of course, NATO added Finland as its 31st Ally, and we
   will soon add Sweden as the 32nd.

   As we head into the NATO Summit in Vilnius, our shared message will be
   clear:  NATO Allies are committed to enhanced deterrence and defense,
   to greater and smarter defense spending, to deeper ties with
   Indo-Pacific partners.  NATO’s door remains open to new members, and it
   will stay open.

   Russia’s invasion has also led the European Union to do more – and more
   together with the United States and with NATO – than ever before.  The
   EU and its member-states have provided over $75 billion in military,
   economic, humanitarian support to Ukraine.  That includes $18 billion
   in security assistance, from air defense systems to Leopard tanks to
   ammunition.  Coordinating closely with the U.S., the U.K., and other
   partners, the EU has launched its most ambitious sanctions ever,
   immobilizing over half of Russia’s sovereign assets.  And European
   nations have taken in more than 8 million Ukrainian refugees, most of
   whom have not only been granted access to public services, but also the
   right to work, to study.

   Second, for decades, Moscow worked to deepen Europe’s dependence on
   Russian oil and gas.  Since President Putin’s full-scale invasion,
   Europe has made a swift and decisive turn away from Russian
   energy.  Berlin immediately canceled Nord Stream 2, which would have
   doubled the flow of Russian gas to Germany.

   Before Putin’s invasion, European countries imported 37 percent of
   their natural gas from Russia.  Europe cut that by more than half in
   less than a year.  In 2022, EU countries generated a record one-fifth
   of their electricity through wind and solar – more electricity than the
   EU generated through coal, gas, or any other power source.  The United
   States for its part more than doubled our supply of gas to Europe, and
   our Asian allies – Japan, the Republic of Korea – also stepped up to
   boost Europe’s supply.

   Meanwhile, the oil price cap that we and our G7 partners put in place
   has kept Russia’s energy in the global market, while dramatically
   cutting Russian revenues.  A year into its invasion, Russia’s oil
   revenues had fallen by 43 percent.  The Russian Government’s tax
   revenues from oil and gas have fallen by nearly two-thirds.  And Moscow
   will not get back the markets that it has lost in Europe.

   Third, President Putin spent two decades trying to build Russia’s
   military into a modern force, with cutting-edge weaponry, streamlined
   command, and well-trained, well-equipped soldiers.  The Kremlin often
   claimed it had the second-strongest military in the world, and many
   believed it.  Today, many see Russia’s military as the second-strongest
   in Ukraine.  Its equipment, technology, leadership, troops, strategy,
   tactics, and morale, a case study in failure – even as Moscow inflicts
   devastating, indiscriminate, and gratuitous damage on Ukraine and
   Ukrainians.

   Russia is estimated to have suffered more than 100,000 casualties in
   the last six months alone, as Putin sends wave after wave of Russians
   into a meat grinder of his own making.

   Meanwhile, sanctions and export controls imposed by the United States,
   the European Union, and other partners around the world have severely
   degraded Russia’s war machine and defense exports, setting them back
   for years to come.  Russia’s global defense partners and customers can
   no longer count on promised orders, let alone spare parts.  And as they
   witness Russia’s poor performance on the battlefield, they are
   increasingly taking their business elsewhere.

   Fourth, President Putin wanted to build Russia up as a global, economic
   power.  His invasion cemented his long-running failure to diversify
   Russia’s economy, to strengthen its human capital, to fully integrate
   the country into the global economy.  Today, Russia’s economy is a
   shadow of what it was, and a fraction of what it could have become had
   Putin invested in technology and innovation rather than weapons and
   war.

   Russia’s foreign reserves are down by more than half, as are profits
   from its state-owned enterprises.  More than 1,700 foreign companies
   have reduced, suspended, or ended operations in Russia since the onset
   of the invasion.  That’s tens of thousands of jobs gone, a massive
   flight of foreign expertise, and billions of dollars in lost revenue
   for the Kremlin.

   A million people have fled Russia, including many of the country’s top
   IT specialists, entrepreneurs, engineers, doctors, professors,
   journalists, scientists.  Countless artists, writers, filmmakers,
   musicians have also left, seeing no future for themselves in a country
   where they can’t express themselves freely.

   Fifth, President Putin invested considerable effort to show that Russia
   could be a valued partner to China.  On the eve of the invasion,
   Beijing and Moscow declared a “no limits” partnership.  Eighteen months
   into the invasion, that two-way partnership looks more and more
   one-sided.  Putin’s aggression and weaponization of strategic
   dependencies on Russia has served as a wake-up call to governments
   around the world to make efforts at de-risking.  And together, the
   United States and our partners are taking steps to reduce those
   vulnerabilities, from building more resilient critical supply chains to
   strengthening our shared tools to counter economic coercion.

   So, Russia’s aggression hasn’t distracted us from meeting the
   challenges in the Indo-Pacific.  It’s actually sharpened our focus on
   them.  And our support for Ukraine hasn’t weakened our capabilities to
   meet potential threats from China or anywhere else – it’s strengthened
   them. And we believe that Beijing is taking notice that, far from being
   intimidated by a forceful violation of the UN Charter, the world has
   rallied to defend it.

   Sixth, prior to the war, President Putin regularly used Russia’s
   influence in international organizations to try to weaken the United
   Nations Charter.  Today, Russia is more isolated on the world stage
   than ever.  At least 140 nations – two-thirds of UN member-states –
   have repeatedly voted in the UN General Assembly to affirm Ukraine’s
   sovereignty and territorial integrity, to reject Putin’s attempts to
   illegally annex Ukrainian territory, to condemn Russia’s aggression and
   atrocities, and to call for a peace consistent with the principles of
   the United Nations Charter.  Governments from the West and East, North
   and South have voted to suspend Russia from numerous institutions, from
   the UN Human Rights Council to the International Civil Aviation
   Organization.  Russian candidates have lost one election after another
   for key seats in international institutions, from the governing board
   of UNICEF to leadership of the UN agency responsible for information
   and communication technologies, the ITU.

   Each rebuke and loss for Moscow is not only a vote against Russia’s
   aggression, it’s a vote for the core principles of the United Nations
   Charter.   And countries from every part of the world are supporting
   efforts to hold Russia accountable for its war crimes and crimes
   against humanity, from creating a special UN commission to document the
   crimes and human rights violations committed in Russia’s war to
   assisting investigations by prosecutors in Ukraine and at the
   International Criminal Court.

   Seventh, President Putin, for years, sought to divide the West from the
   rest, claiming that Russia was advancing the best interests of the
   developing world.   Today, thanks to openly declaring his imperial
   ambitions and weaponizing food and fuel, President Putin has diminished
   Russian influence on every continent.  Putin’s efforts to reconstitute
   a centuries-old empire reminded every nation that had endured colonial
   rule and repression of their own pain.  Then, he exacerbated the
   economic hardship many nations were already experiencing due to COVID
   and climate change by cutting off Ukraine’s grain from the world
   markets, driving up the cost of food and fuel everywhere.

   By contrast, on one global challenge after another, the United States
   and our partners have proven that our focus on Ukraine will not
   distract us from working to improve the lives of people around the
   world and address the cascading costs of Russia’s aggression.

   Our unprecedented emergency food aid has prevented millions of people
   from starving to death. Just last year alone, the United States
   provided $13.5 billion in food assistance.  And the United States is
   currently funding over half of the UN World Food Programme’s budget.
   Russia funds less than one percent.

   We supported a deal negotiated by UN Secretary-General Guterres
   and Türkiye to break Russia’s stranglehold on Ukrainian grain, allowing
   29 million tons of food and counting to get out of Ukraine and to
   people around the world.  That includes 8 million tons of wheat, which
   is the equivalent of roughly 16 billion loaves of bread.

   Together with allies and partners, we’re mobilizing hundreds of
   billions of dollars in financing for high-quality infrastructure in the
   countries where it’s needed most and building it in a way that’s
   transparent, good for the environment; empowers local workers and
   communities.

   We’re strengthening global health security, from training half a
   million health professionals in our own hemisphere, in the Americas, to
   helping the pharmaceutical company Moderna finalize plans with Kenya to
   build its first mRNA vaccine manufacturing facility in Africa.

   Time and again, we are demonstrating who fuels global problems and who
   solves them.

   Finally, President Putin’s core aim – indeed, his obsession – has been
   to erase the very idea of Ukraine – its identity, its people, its
   culture, its agency, its territory.  But here, too, Putin’s actions
   have precipitated the opposite effect.  No one has done more to
   strengthen Ukraine’s national identity than the man who sought to wipe
   it out.  No one has done more to deepen Ukrainians’ unity and
   solidarity.  No one has done more to intensify Ukrainians’
   determination to write their own future on their own terms.

   Ukraine will never be Russia.  Ukraine stands sovereign, independent,
   firmly in control of its own destiny.  In this – Putin’s primary goal –
   he has failed most spectacularly.

   President Putin constantly claims that the United States, Europe, and
   countries that support Ukraine are bent on defeating or destroying
   Russia, on toppling its government, on holding back its people.  That
   is false. We do not seek the overthrow of the Russian Government and we
   never have.  Russia’s future is for Russians to decide.

   We have no quarrel with the Russian people, who had no say in starting
   this tragic war.  We lament that Putin is sending tens of thousands of
   Russians to their deaths in a war he could end now, if he chose – and
   inflicting ruinous impact on Russia’s economy and its
   prospects.  Indeed, it must be asked:  How has Putin’s war improved the
   lives, the livelihoods, or the prospects of ordinary Russian citizens?

   Everything that we and our allies and partners do in response to
   Putin’s invasion has the same purpose: to help Ukraine defend its
   sovereignty, its territorial integrity and independence, and to stand
   up for the international rules and principles that are threatened by
   Putin’s ongoing war.

   Let me say this directly to the Russian people:  The United States is
   not your enemy.  At the peaceful end of the Cold War, we shared the
   hope that Russia would emerge to a brighter future, free and open,
   fully integrated with the world.  For more than 30 years, we worked to
   pursue stable and cooperative relations with Moscow, because we
   believed that a peaceful, secure, and prosperous Russia is in America’s
   interests – indeed, in the interests of the world.  We still believe
   that today.

   We cannot choose your future for you, and we won’t try to do so.  But
   we also will not let President Putin impose his will on other nations.
   Moscow must treat the independence, the sovereignty, the territorial
   integrity of its neighbors with the same respect that it demands for
   Russia.

   Now, as I’ve made clear, by virtually every measure, President Putin’s
   invasion of Ukraine has been a strategic failure.  Yet while Putin has
   failed to achieve his aims, he hasn’t given up on them.  He’s convinced
   that he can simply outlast Ukraine and its supporters, sending more and
   more Russians to their deaths, inflicting more and more suffering on
   Ukraine’s civilians.  He thinks that even if he loses the short game,
   he can still win the long game.  Putin is wrong about this, too.

   The United States – together with our allies and partners – is firmly
   committed to supporting Ukraine’s defense today, tomorrow, for as long
   as it takes.  And in America, this support is bipartisan.  And
   precisely because we have no illusions about Putin’s aspirations, we
   believe the prerequisite for meaningful diplomacy and real peace is a
   stronger Ukraine, capable of deterring and defending against any future
   aggression.

   We’ve rallied a formidable team around this effort.  With Secretary of
   Defense Austin’s leadership, more than 50 countries are cooperating
   through the Ukraine Defense Contact Group.  And we’re leading by the
   power of our example, providing tens of billions of dollars in security
   assistance to Ukraine with robust and unwavering support from both
   sides of the aisle in our Congress.

   Today, America and our allies and partners are helping meet Ukraine’s
   needs on the current battlefield while developing a force that can
   deter and defend against aggression for years to come.  That means
   helping build a Ukrainian military of the future, with long-term
   funding, a strong air force centered on modern combat aircraft, an
   integrated air and missile defense network, advanced tanks and armored
   vehicles, national capacity to produce ammunition, and the training and
   support to keep forces and equipment combat-ready.

   That also means Ukraine’s membership in NATO will be a matter for
   Allies and Ukraine – not Russia – to decide.  The path to peace will be
   forged not only through Ukraine’s long-term military strength, but also
   the strength of its economy and its democracy. This is at the heart of
   our vision for the way forward:  Ukraine must not only survive, it must
   thrive.  To be strong enough to deter and defend against aggressors
   beyond its borders, Ukraine needs a vibrant, prosperous democracy
   within its borders.

   That’s the path the Ukrainian people voted for when they won their
   independence in 1991.  It’s the choice they defended in the Maidan in
   2004, and again in 2013: a free and open society, with respect for
   human rights and the rule of law, fully integrated with Europe, where
   all Ukrainians have dignity and the opportunity to realize their full
   potential – and where the government responds to the needs of its
   people, not those of vested interests and elites.

   We are committed to working with allies and partners to help Ukrainians
   make their vision a reality.  We’ll not only help Ukraine rebuild its
   economy, but reimagine it, with new industries, trade routes, supply
   chains connected with Europe and with markets around the world.  We’ll
   continue to bolster Ukraine’s independent anti-corruption bodies, a
   free and vibrant press, civil society organizations.  We’ll help
   Ukraine overhaul its energy grid – more than half of which has been
   destroyed by Russia – and do it in a way that’s cleaner, more
   resilient, and more integrated with its neighbors, so that Ukraine can
   one day become an energy exporter.

   Ukraine’s greater integration with Europe is vital to all of these
   efforts.  Kyiv took a giant step in that direction last June, when the
   union formally granted Ukraine EU candidate status.  And Kyiv is
   working to make progress toward the EU’s benchmarks even as it fights
   for its survival.

   Investing in Ukraine’s strength is not at the expense of diplomacy.  It
   paves the way for diplomacy.  President Zelenskyy has said repeatedly
   that diplomacy is the only way to end this war, and we agree.  In
   December, he put forward a vision for a just and lasting
   peace.  Instead of engaging on that proposal or even offering one of
   his own, President Putin has said there is nothing to talk about until
   Ukraine accepts, and I quote, “new territorial realities” – in other
   words, accept Russia’s seizure of 20 percent of Ukraine’s
   territory.  Putin spent the winter trying to freeze Ukrainian civilians
   to death, and then the spring trying to bomb them to death.  Day after
   day, Russia rains down missiles and drones on Ukrainian apartment
   buildings, schools, hospitals.

   Now, from a distance, it’s easy to become numb to these and other
   Russian atrocities, like the drone strike last week on a medical clinic
   in Dnipro, which killed four people, including doctors; or the 17
   strikes on Kyiv in the month of May alone, many using hypersonic
   missiles; or the missile attack in April on the city of Uman – hundreds
   of miles from the front lines – in which 23 civilians were killed.  The
   rocket strike hit multiple apartment buildings in Uman before dawn.  In
   one of those buildings, a father, Dmytro, raced to the room where his
   children were sleeping – Kyrylo, age 17; Sophia, age 11.  But when he
   opened the door to their bedroom, there was no room, just fire and
   smoke.  His children were gone.  Two more innocent lives extinguished.
   Two of the six children Russia killed in a single strike.  Two of the
   thousands of Ukrainian children killed by Russia’s war of aggression.
   Thousands more have been wounded, and thousands beyond that have been
   abducted from their families by Russia and given to Russian families.
   Millions have been displaced.  All are part of a generation of
   Ukrainian children terrorized, traumatized, scarred by Putin’s war of
   aggression, all of whom remind us why Ukrainians are so fiercely
   committed to defending their nation and why they deserve – deserve – a
   just and lasting peace.

   Now, some have argued that if the United States truly wanted peace,
   we’d stop supporting Ukraine, and then if Ukraine truly wanted to end
   the war, it would just cut its losses and give up the fifth of its
   territory that Russia illegally occupies.  Let’s play this out for a
   minute.  What neighbors of Russia would feel confident in their own
   sovereignty and territorial integrity if Putin’s aggression were to be
   rewarded with a fifth of Ukraine’s territory?

   And for that matter, how would any country that lives near a bully,
   with a history of threats and aggression, feel secure within its own
   borders?   What lesson will other would-be aggressors around the world
   learn if Putin is allowed to violate a core tenet of the UN Charter
   with impunity?   And how often in history have aggressors who seize all
   or part of a neighboring country been satisfied and stopped there?
   When has that ever satisfied Vladimir Putin?

   The United States has been working with Ukraine – and allies and
   partners around the world – to build consensus around the core elements
   of a just and lasting peace.  To be clear, the United States welcomes
   any initiative that helps bring President Putin to the table to engage
   in meaningful diplomacy.  We’ll support efforts – whether by Brazil, by
   China, or any other nation – if they help find a way to a just and
   lasting peace, consistent with the principles of the United Nations
   Charter.

   Here’s what that means.

   A just and lasting peace must uphold the UN Charter and affirm the
   principles of sovereignty, territorial integrity, and independence.

   A just and lasting peace requires Ukraine’s full participation and
   assent – nothing about Ukraine without Ukraine.

   A just and lasting peace must support Ukraine’s reconstruction and
   recovery, with Russia paying its share.

   A just and lasting peace must address both accountability and
   reconciliation.

   A just and lasting peace can open a pathway to sanctions relief
   connected to concrete actions, especially military withdrawal.  A just
   and lasting peace must end Russia’s war of aggression.

   Now, over the coming weeks and months, some countries will call for a
   ceasefire.  And on the surface, that sounds sensible – attractive,
   even.  After all, who doesn’t want warring parties to lay down their
   arms?  Who doesn’t want the killing to stop?

   But a ceasefire that simply freezes current lines in place and enables
   Putin to consolidate control over the territory he’s seized, and then
   rest, re-arm, and re-attack – that is not a just and lasting peace.
   It’s a Potemkin peace.  It would legitimize Russia’s land grab.  It
   would reward the aggressor and punish the victim.

   If and when Russia is ready to work for true peace, the United States
   will respond in concert with Ukraine and other allies and partners
   around the world.  And along with Ukraine and allies and partners, we
   would be prepared to have a broader discussion on European security
   that promotes stability and transparency and reduces the likelihood of
   future conflict.

   In the weeks and months ahead, the United States will continue to work
   with Ukraine, with our allies and partners – and any and all parties
   dedicated to supporting a just and lasting peace based on these
   principles.

   On April 4, 1949, 74 years to the day before Finland joined NATO, the
   original members of the Alliance gathered in Washington to sign its
   founding treaty.  President Truman warned the group, and I quote, “We
   cannot succeed if our people are haunted by the constant fear of
   aggression and burdened by the cost of preparing their nations
   individually against attack.  [W]e hope to create a shield against
   aggression and the fear of aggression – a bulwark which will permit us
   to get on with the real business of . . . achieving a fuller and
   happier life for all our citizens.”

   The same is true today.  No nation – not Ukraine, not the United
   States, not Finland, Sweden, any other country can deliver for its
   people if it lives in constant fear of aggression.  That’s why we’ve
   all got a stake in ensuring that President Putin’s war of aggression
   against Ukraine continues to be a strategic failure.

   In his New Year’s address to the Finnish people, President Niinistö
   identified one of the fundamental flaws of President Putin’s plan to
   swiftly conquer Ukraine – a flaw that also doomed Stalin’s plan to
   swiftly conquer Finland.  As President Niinistö said, and I quote, “As
   leaders of a country under authoritarian rule, Stalin and Putin failed
   to recognize . . . that people living in a free country have their own
   will and convictions.  And that a nation that works together
   constitutes an immense force.”

   Finns have a word for that fierce combination of will and
   determination: sisu.  And they recognize sisu in the struggle of
   Ukrainians today.  And when a free people like the Ukrainians have at
   their backs the support of free nations around the world – nations who
   recognize their fates and freedom – their rights and security are
   inextricably bound together, the force they possess is not merely
   immense.  It is unstoppable.

   Thank you very much.  (Applause.)

   Tags
   Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs Finland Office of the
   Spokesperson Russia Secretary Trip The Secretary of State Ukraine
   (BUTTON) Back to Top

     * White House
     * USA.gov
     * Office of the Inspector General
     * Archives
     * Contact Us

   follow us

   Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Flickr GovDelivery
     * Privacy Policy
     * Accessibility Statement
     * Copyright Information
     * FOIA
     * No FEAR Act

   Search: ____________________
   (BUTTON) Search

   (BUTTON) Close

U.S. Department of State

The Lessons of 1989: Freedom and Our Future
