   #Responsible Statecraft

   (BUTTON) ____________________

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-5DP5369

   (BUTTON)
   Responsible Statecraft
   (BUTTON)
   quincyinst.org
   Military Industrial Complex
   Washington Politics
   Media
   Global Crises
   Regions
   EuropeMiddle EastAfricaAsia-PacificLatin AmericaNorth America
   Donate
   (BUTTON)
   ____________________ (BUTTON)
   Donate
   Military Industrial Complex
   Washington Politics
   Media
   Global Crises
   Regions
   EuropeMiddle EastAfricaAsia-PacificLatin AmericaNorth America
   Video
   About Us

Follow us on social

Stay Responsible. Subscribe for Global Insights

   Invalid email ____________________Enter your email (Subscribe)
   Subscribe
   ____________________

   Is this the beginning of the end of the war in Ukraine?

Is this the beginning of the end of the war in Ukraine?

   The Western media is suddenly teeming with signs of fatigue and even
   .... diplomacy?
   Europe

    1. regions europe
    2. ukraine war

   Ted Snider
   Nov 08, 2023

   “I don’t think that [the war] is a stalemate,” Ukrainian president
   Volodymyr Zelensky told NBC News’ Meet the Press on Sunday.

   “They thought they would checkmate us, but,” he insisted, “this didn’t
   happen.” According to recent interviews, his military leadership
   disagrees. His political inner circle thinks his insistence is
   delusional.

   Zelensky is facing pressure both from within Ukraine and from without.
   Growing pressure from within is coming from both the political and
   military leadership; growing pressure from without is coming from
   Ukraine’s key partners.

   The battle is largely being played out in the Western media. Most
   intimately, Zelensky has faced criticism from his political inner
   circle. TIME magazine reports that some of the president’s advisors
   have become worried that his “belief in Ukraine’s ultimate victory over
   Russia . . . “verg[es] on the messianic.” One of Zelensky’s “closest
   aides” said that Zelensky “deludes himself.” The aide complained,
   “We’re out of options. We’re not winning. But try telling him that.”

   Some Zelensky aides say his intransigence hampers Ukraine’s ability to
   adapt to the changed reality on the battlefield and worry that
   negotiating a settlement with Russia remains “taboo.”

   Domestic criticism is also coming from the top levels of the military.
   Zelensky is reportedly in conflict with his generals over the conduct
   of the counteroffensive and over his demands to defend Bakhmut and
   Avdiivka at any cost, which the military leadership sees as a strategic
   mistake that is already hurting Ukraine dearly in soldiers and
   equipment.

   A senior Ukrainian military officer said that orders from the
   president’s office are, at times, disconnected from the battlefield
   reality and defended some front-line commanders who have begun
   second-guessing and refusing “orders from the top.”

   Zelensky’s struggle with his generals intensified on November 3 when
   Zelensky fired General Viktor Khorenko, the commander of Ukraine’s
   special operations forces. The commander-in-chief of the Ukrainian
   army, General Valery Zaluzhny, did not request his dismissal. The New
   York Times reports that “It was unclear whether General Zaluzhny, the
   overall commander of Ukraine’s forces, knew in advance of the planned
   dismissal” and that “[t]he firing appeared to undercut General
   Zaluzhny’s authority.”

   The firing took U.S. military officers, who “described a close and
   effective working relationship with” Khorenko, by surprise. Khorenko’s
   special operations forces had had some success with long-range strikes
   and sabotage operations behind Russian lines. But the NYT reports that
   there had been tension over what the military had “perceived as
   politically guided decisions on strategy” that had been ineffective and
   costly.

   Zelensky’s tensions with his generals reached a peak with Zaluzhny’s
   November 1 interview with The Economist. He asserted that the war had
   reached a “stalemate.” He conceded that “There will most likely be no
   deep and beautiful breakthrough.”

   What’s worse is that Zaluzhny implied that the stalemate would evolve
   into defeat for Ukraine. A stalemate entails a long war of attrition.
   In a companion essay published simultaneously by The Economist, he
   explained that a long war “as a rule, in most cases, is beneficial to
   one of the parties to the conflict. In our particular case, it is the
   russian [sic] federation, as it gives it the opportunity to
   reconstitute and build up its military power.”

   Zaluzhny said that in a prolonged war, Ukraine will run out of the
   “required volume” of missiles and ammunition while Russia, despite
   sanctions, is increasing its production capabilities. And even if it
   didn’t run out of weapons, he added, it will run out of men: a war of
   attrition “leads to the lack of Ukraine's ability to achieve
   superiority over the enemy in reserves by increasing their number.” A
   close Zelensky aide told TIME that, even if the United States gave
   Ukraine all the weapons it needed, Kyiv doesn’t “have the men to use
   them.”

   Zelensky’s office censured Zaluzhny, saying it “eases the work” of
   Russia and stirs “panic” among Ukraine’s Western partners. The New York
   Times calls the censure “a striking public rebuke that signaled an
   emerging rift between the military and civilian leadership.”

   In addition to the pressure coming from within Zelensky’s inner
   political and military circle, diplomatic pressure is also coming from
   Zelensky’s international partners.

   A November 3 NBC News article reported that “U.S. and European
   officials have begun quietly talking to the Ukrainian government about
   what possible peace negotiations with Russia might entail to end the
   war.” The article went on to say, citing one current and one former
   senior U.S. official familiar with the discussions, that “the
   conversations have included very broad outlines of what Ukraine might
   need to give up to reach a deal.”

   The quiet talks suggest agreement by the U.S. and its European allies
   with Zaluzhny that Ukraine may not achieve its goals on the
   battlefield, that the realization of their aspirations may continue to
   dim with prolonged battle, and that some concessions may need to be
   made.

   There is a remarkable convergence in the language used by the U.S. and
   European officials and the language used by Zaluzhny and Zelensky’s
   aides. NBC reports that the conversations “began amid concerns among
   U.S. and European officials that the war has reached a stalemate.” NBC
   reports that, like Zaluzhny, “[s]ome U.S. military officials have
   privately begun using the term ‘stalemate’ to describe the current
   battle in Ukraine.”

   Like Zaluzhny and Zelensky’s aides, “Biden administration officials
   also are worried that Ukraine is running out of forces.” According to
   “people familiar with the matter,” NBC reported, “President Joe Biden
   has been intensely focused on Ukraine’s depleting military forces.”
   “Manpower,” one of those sources is quoted as saying, “is at the top of
   the administration’s concerns right now.”

   Echoing the “close Zelensky aide” quoted in TIME, the same source said,
   “The U.S. and its allies can provide Ukraine with weaponry, but if they
   don’t have competent forces to use them it doesn’t do a lot of good.”

   These concerns, NBC reported, have led U.S. officials to concede
   privately that “Ukraine likely only has until the end of the year or
   shortly thereafter before more urgent discussions about peace
   negotiations should begin.”

   That leaves only a couple of months. With the battlefield turning
   against Ukraine despite Zelensky’s intransigent “belief in Ukraine’s
   ultimate victory over Russia,” the pressure targeted at Zelensky seems
   to be building, from both within and without,, to turn to the
   diplomatic front and face the beginning of the end of the war.
   From Your Site Articles
     * Diplomacy Watch: Washington may deny it, but looks like someone
       wants to talk to Russia ›
     * Diplomacy Watch: Ukraine and Russia are (quietly) talking ›

   Related Articles Around the Web
     * Ukraine war latest: Putin 'ready for talks' on post-conflict
       settlement ... ›
     * Former U.S. officials have held secret Ukraine talks with Russians
       ›

   Ted Snider
   Ted Snider is a regular columnist on U.S. foreign policy and history at
   Antiwar.com and The Libertarian Institute. He is also a frequent
   contributor to Responsible Statecraft and other outlets.

   (shutterstock/Alonafoto)
   Europe

   Russia's Lavrov lays it on thick for Middle East audience

   Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov speaks at the 21st Doha Forum in
   Qatar on Dec. 10. (Vlahos)

Russia's Lavrov lays it on thick for Middle East audience

   Kelley Beaucar Vlahos
   December 10, 2023
   Regions

   DOHA, QATAR — In remarks Sunday at the 21st Doha Forum in Qatar,
   Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov seemed to revel in what is
   becoming a groundswell of international frustration with the United
   States over its policies in Israel. Despite Russia’s own near-isolated
   status after its 2022 invasion of Ukraine, Lavrov glibly characterized
   the U.S. as on the wrong side of history, the leader of the dying world
   order, and the purveyor of its own brand of “cancel culture.”

   “I think everybody understands that this (Gaza war) did not happen in a
   vacuum that there were decades of unfulfilled promises that the
   Palestinians would get their own state,” and years of political and
   security hostilities that exploded on Oct. 7, he charged. “This is
   about the cancel culture, whatever you don’t like about events that led
   to the current situation you cancel. Everything that came before
   February 2022, including the bloody coup (in Ukraine) and the
   unconstitutional change of power … all this was canceled. The only
   thing that remains is that Russia invaded Ukraine.”

   Lavrov, beamed in from Russia to the international audience in Doha,
   went fairly unchallenged, though his interviewer James Bays, diplomatic
   editor at Al Jazeera, attempted to corner him on accusations stemming
   from Russia’s own bloody record in Chechnya in the 1990s and and 2000s
   and its ongoing military campaign in Syria, which Lavrov noted was at
   the “behest” of the Syrian government.

   On the issue of the failed ceasefire vote at the UN Security Council,
   of which Russia is a permanent veto member, Lavrov said, “we strongly
   condemn the terrorist attack against Israel. At the same time we do not
   think it is acceptable to use this (terrorist) event for collective
   punishment of millions of Palestinian people.” Did he condemn the
   United States for vetoing the ceasefire measure? “It’s up to the
   regional countries and the other countries of the world to judge,” he
   declared.

   When asked if there was a “stalemate” in the Russian war in Ukraine,
   and what the Russians may have gained from their invasion in 2022, he
   said simply, “it’s up to the Ukrainians to understand how deep a hole
   they are in and where the Americans have put them.”

   On whether a ceasefire may be in the offing in that war Lavrov said, “a
   year and half ago (Zelensky) signed a decree prohibiting any
   negotiations with the Putin government. They had the chance in March
   and April 2022, very soon after the beginning of the special military
   operation, where in Istanbul the negotiators reached a deal with
   neutrality for Ukraine, no NATO, and security guarantees…it was
   canceled,” he added, because the Americans and Brits wanted to “exhaust
   (Ukrainians) more.”

   Lavrov gleefully piggybacked on themes from an earlier forum panel on
   the Global South. He accused “the United States and its allies” of
   building “the model of globalization, which they thought would serve
   them well.” But now, Lavrov contends, the unaligned are using “the
   principles and instruments of globalization to beat the West on their
   own terms.” As for Russia, Lavrov deployed a little “cancel culture” of
   his own, cherry picking the high points of his country's history over
   the last 200 years to project a nation that he boasts will emerge
   unscathed by Western assaults today.

   “In the beginning of the 19th century Napoleon (rose European armies)
   against Russia and we defeated him; in the 20th century Hitler did the
   same. We defeated him and became stronger after that as well,” he said.
   With the Ukraine war, the West will find “that Russia has already
   become much stronger than it was before this.”
   keep readingShow less

   US ceasefire veto draws major backlash in Doha

   UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres speaks in opening session of the
   Doha Forum in Qatar, December 10. (vlahos)

US ceasefire veto draws major backlash in Doha

   Kelley Beaucar Vlahos
   December 10, 2023
   QiOSK

   DOHA, QATAR — The U.S. veto of the UN Security Council vote for a
   ceasefire in the war in Gaza is being met with widespread anger and
   frustration by the international community and especially in the Arab
   world, as reflected in opening remarks at the 21st Doha Forum in Qatar
   on Sunday.

   Addressing the forum, UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres said the
   vote was “regrettable…that does not make it less necessary. I can
   promise that I will not give up.” He said since the Oct. 7 attack by
   Hamas in Israel and the ensuing Israeli retaliation in Gaza, “the
   Council’s authority and credibility were seriously undermined” by a
   succession of failed votes to respond to ongoing civilian carnage on
   the Strip.

   Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al-Thani, foreign minister of Qatar,
   said the current crisis and the U.S. reaction to it, including its
   thwarting of the ceasefire call (it was the only vote of disapproval;
   the UK abstained) was exposing the “great gap between East and West ...
   and double standards in the international community.” He pointed to
   those drawing attention to war crimes in “other contexts” (no doubt
   referring to Russia in Ukraine ) “hesitating to call for the end of
   these crimes in the Gaza strip.”

   He repeatedly called for the creation of new multipolar world order
   that "respects justice and equality between the people where no people
   are more powerful than the other."

   The U.S. said it did not approve the ceasefire resolution Friday
   because of the lack of condemnation of Hamas in the language, and that
   it not include a declaration of Israel’s right to defend itself. U.S.
   ambassador Robert Wood said halting Israel’s military action would
   “only plant the seeds for the next war.”

   The result is that people here at the forum say they are more convinced
   than ever that U.S. policy is reflexively and intimately intertwined
   with Israel's activities in Gaza. As Mohammad Shtayyeh, prime minister
   of Palestine, charged, Washington has given the “greenest of green
   lights” to what Israel is doing on the ground. This was exacerbated
   this weekend with news that the Biden Administration is bypassing
   Congressional review to send 13,000 tank rounds to Israel. This,
   despite efforts by Democrats in his own party to condition the transfer
   of offensive weapons to prevent their use against civilians.

   Meanwhile, humanitarian advocates repeatedly called the situation on
   the ground “unprecedented.” In an interview with Al Jazeera reporter
   Stefanie Dekker on the dais, Philippe Lazzarini, commissioner-general
   of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency, said his own
   organization is “on the brink of collapse.” They have lost 134 relief
   workers in Gaza since Israeli operations began. He described staff in
   silent stupefaction over the loss of homes, families. “There is no
   doubt a ceasefire is needed; we want to put an end to hell on earth
   right now in Gaza.”

   Khaled Saffuri, executive director of the National Interest Foundation
   in Washington, told RS he was struck by the backlash against American
   brands in his own travels in Kuwait and Qatar over the last week,
   citing customer and restaurant boycotts of Coke, Pepsi, MacDonald’s,
   and Starbucks. “It’s horrible,” he said of the lopsided UN vote.
   “America is losing a lot in the Muslim world.”

   Dear RS readers: It has been an extraordinary year and our editing team
   has been working overtime to make sure that we are covering the current
   conflicts with quality, fresh analysis that doesn’t cleave to the
   mainstream orthodoxy or take official Washington and the commentariat
   at face value. Our staff reporters, experts, and outside writers offer
   top-notch, independent work, daily. Please consider making a
   tax-exempt, year-end contribution to Responsible Statecraft so that we
   can continue this quality coverage — which you will find nowhere else —
   into 2024. Happy Holidays!
   keep readingShow less

   GOP Debate: Ukraine inching toward the memory hole

   Journalists in the press room watch as Republican presidential
   candidate and former New Jersey Governor Chris Christie and fellow
   candidate and businessman Vivek Ramaswamy discuss an issue during the
   fourth Republican candidates' debate of the 2024 U.S. presidential
   campaign hosted by NewsNation at the University of Alabama in
   Tuscaloosa, Alabama, U.S., December 6, 2023. REUTERS/Alyssa Pointer

GOP Debate: Ukraine inching toward the memory hole

   Kelley Beaucar Vlahos
   December 07, 2023
   QiOSK

   It's as if the Ukraine War has all but ended — at least for American
   politics.

   If the Republican debates had occurred last year, they would have been
   consumed with talk over whether Vladimir Putin was readying to roll
   across Europe and how weak President Biden was for not giving Ukrainian
   President Volodymyr Zelensky our best tanks, our most powerful fighter
   aircraft, the longest range missiles we had — maybe even access to
   nukes.

   But Zelensky wasn’t anywhere near the debate stage in Alabama last
   night, his name not even invoked. Fitting, we guess, since the Senate
   failed to pass an aid package yesterday that would have sent another
   $60 billion to Ukraine. This, despite administration claims that the
   war effort is literally running out of money. Biden even took to the
   airwaves Wednesday to warn of a NATO war if the funding wasn’t
   approved.

   Republicans have been souring on the aid for months now, which might
   account for Ukraine’s diminished importance in the conversation. It was
   outweighed last night by the conflict in Israel, which in itself only
   drew three questions: Do we send in special forces to get the eight
   remaining American hostages back from Hamas? What kind of punishment
   could be slapped on university presidents who allow “pro Hamas”
   protests on campus? And how do we “get” Iran for purportedly being
   behind it all?

   Ukraine was wielded, albeit briefly, as a blunt instrument. At the very
   least it gave us the tiniest of glimpses into the competing world views
   of the hawks on the dais (Chris Christie and Nikki Haley) and their
   chief agitant, Vivek Ramaswamy.

   Haley raised the issue (without being asked about it) by fitting it
   into her usual stream of Domino Theory conciousness:

   “The problem is, you have to see that all of these are related. If you
   look at the fact Russia was losing that war with Ukraine, Putin had hit
   rock bottom, they had raised the draft age to 65. He was getting drones
   and missiles — drones from Iran, missiles from North Korea. And so what
   happened when he hit rock bottom, all of a sudden his other friend,
   Iran, Hamas goes and invades Israel and butchers those people on
   Putin's birthday. There is no one happier right now than Putin because
   all of the attention America had on Ukraine suddenly went to Israel.
   And that's what they were hoping is going to happen. We need to make
   sure that we have full clarity, that there is a reason again that
   Taiwanese want to help Ukrainians because they know if Ukraine wins
   China won't invade Taiwan. There's a reason the Ukrainians want to help
   Israelis because they know that if Iran wins, Russia wins. These are
   all connected. But what wins all of that is a strong America, not a
   weak America. And that's what Joe Biden has given us.”

   Vivek Ramaswamy responds:

   “I want to say one thing about that tie to Ukraine. Foreign policy
   experience is not the same as foreign policy wisdom. I was the first
   person to say we need a reasonable peace deal in Ukraine. Now a lot of
   the neocons are quietly coming along to that position with the
   exceptions of Nikki Haley and Joe Biden, who still support this, what I
   believe, is pointless war in Ukraine. …One thing that Joe Biden and
   Nikki Haley have in common is that neither of them could even state for
   you three provinces in eastern Ukraine that they want to send our
   troops to actually fight for. … So reject this myth that they've been
   selling you that somebody had a cup of coffee stint at the UN and then
   makes eight million bucks after has real foreign policy experience. It
   takes an outsider to see this through.”

   To which Chris Christie retorted:

   “Let me just say something here, you know, his (Ramaswamy’s) reasonable
   peace deal in Ukraine. He made it clear. Give them all the land they've
   already stolen. Promise Putin you'll never put Ukraine in Russia, and
   then trust Putin not to have a relationship with China.” (Christie then
   essentially calls Ramaswamy a liar for suggesting he never said that.)

   Ramaswamy responds:

   "These people are lying. These are the same people who told you about
   weapons of mass destruction in Iraq to justify that invasion didn't
   know the first thing about it if they send thousands of our sons and
   daughters to go die. The same people who told you the same in
   Afghanistan, where the Taliban is still in charge. Twenty years later,
   seven trillion of our national debt due to these toxic neocons. You can
   put lipstick on a Dick Cheney, it is still a fascist neocon today."

   That was basically it. After $130 billion in U.S. taxpayer money since
   2022, most of which we are being told has been spent in Ukraine. After
   hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians and Russians dead and maimed,
   Ukraine’s economy in such a state that the West has to prop it up, and
   NATO pledging more troops and weapons it doesn’t even seem to have, the
   issue was afforded a scant few minutes, and used only in the broadest
   of ways to pound each other. Gone was even the ghost of the old
   argument that the free world was at stake or that our obligation to
   Ukrainians was a moral imperative. It’s been reduced to a political
   cudgel, which is the first step to being memory holed in Washington. It
   happened to Iraq and Afghanistan in prior president debates 2012 and
   2016.

   The gist seems to be, maybe if we ignore it, it will just go away?
   keep readingShow less

Israel-Gaza Crisis

   The morality of ending war short of 'total victory'
   Middle East

The morality of ending war short of 'total victory'

   David C. Hendrickson
   December 05, 2023

   Truce ends, Israel's assault on Gaza resumes
   Middle East

Truce ends, Israel's assault on Gaza resumes

   Paul R. Pillar
   December 01, 2023

   2023-04-20t173552z_1764131450_rc2fi0afq6ez_rtrmadp_3_usa-labor-senate-s
   u-scaled
   Washington Politics

Are Democrats fracturing over Israel aid?

   Blaise Malley
   November 30, 2023

   How restraint meets moral outrage in Gaza and Ukraine
   Middle East

How restraint meets moral outrage in Gaza and Ukraine

   Ben Burgis
   November 28, 2023

   200802-f-bt522-0392-e1657482674517
   Middle East

How the US made Israel's military what it is today

   Thalif Deen
   November 27, 2023

   Iran’s political factions aren't united on Hamas, or the Middle East
   Middle East

Iran’s political factions aren't united on Hamas, or the Middle East

   Muhammad Sahimi
   November 24, 2023

Newsletter

   By subscribing to our recent updates, you will gain access to a wealth
   of valuable information, including breaking news, expert analysis, and
   thought-provoking articles. Whether you are interested in science,
   technology, business, health, or any other field, our updates will keep
   you informed and engaged.
   Invalid email ____________________Enter your email (Subscribe)
   Subscribe
   ____________________

Latest

   Compensation for victims of US nuke tests stripped from NDAA
   Washington Politics

Compensation for victims of US nuke tests stripped from NDAA

   Connor Echols
   December 08, 2023

   ||
   QiOSK

Diplomacy Watch: New Ukraine aid not likely this year

   Blaise Malley
   December 08, 2023

   Evidence of ethnic cleansing growing in West Bank and Gaza
   Middle East

Evidence of ethnic cleansing growing in West Bank and Gaza

   Paul R. Pillar
   December 08, 2023

   Dems call for more oversight of US weapons in Gaza
   Washington Politics

Dems call for more oversight of US weapons in Gaza

   Connor Echols
   December 07, 2023

   With China, the Pope isn't just virtue signaling
   Asia-Pacific

With China, the Pope isn't just virtue signaling

   Alejandro Reyes
   December 07, 2023

   Biden warns of NATO war with Russia if aid disappears
   QiOSK

Biden warns of NATO war with Russia if aid disappears

   Blaise Malley
   December 06, 2023
   About UsPrivacy PolicyPitchRS@quincyinst.org

   ©2023 Quincy Institute for Responsible Statecraft, Inc. All Rights
   Reserved.

Get stories worth sharing delivered to your inbox

   Invalid email ____________________Enter your email (Subscribe) Signup
   ____________________

Follow

   ©2023 Quincy Institute for Responsible Statecraft, Inc. All Rights
   Reserved.
