   Link: shortlink
   Link: canonical
   Link: alternate en
   Skip to main content
   January/February 2024cover
   Foreign Affairs Magazine Homepage
   Subscribe Sign In ^
   Close Oveflow Menu
   Explore Subscribe

    Sections

     * All Articles
     * Books & Reviews
     * Podcast
     * Anthologies
     * Audio Content
     * Author Directory
     * This Day in History
     * Events

    Topics

     * War in Ukraine
     * Israeli-Palestinian Conflict
     * Artificial Intelligence
     * Climate Change
     * Biden Administration
     * Geopolitics
     * Xi Jinping
     * Benjamin Netanyahu
     * Vladimir Putin
     * Volodymyr Zelensky
     * Nationalism
     * Authoritarianism
     * Propaganda & Disinformation

    Regions

     * West Africa
     * Ukraine
     * Russia
     * China
     * Iran
     * Iraq
     * Israel
     * India
     * North Korea
     * Middle East
     * United States
     * Turkey
     * Sudan
     * View All Regions

    Article Types

     * Essays
     * Snapshots
     * Capsule Reviews
     * Review Essays
     * Ask the Experts
     * Reading Lists
     * Interviews
     * Responses

    Archive

     * 1920s
     * 1930s
     * 1940s
     * 1950s
     * 1960s
     * 1970s
     * 1980s
     * 1990s
     * 2000s
     * 2010s
     * 2020s

    Contact

     * Newsletters
     * Customer Service
     * Frequently Asked Questions
     * Subscriber Resources
     * Feedback
     * Institutional Subscriptions
     * Gift a Subscription
     * Contact
     * Advertise

    Follow Us

   Open Oveflow Menu Foreign Affairs Magazine Homepage 
   Explore My Account ^ Sign In
   Menu

     * Current Issue
     * Archive
     * Books & Reviews
     * Podcast
     * Newsletters
   Search
   Subscribe
   Subscribe Sign in
   × Close dialog
   Email ___________________________
   [ Get the Newsletter ]
   No, thanks

                                Why Israel Slept

The War in Gaza and the Search for Security

  By Amos Yadlin and Udi Evental

   January/February 2024Published on November 21, 2023
   Israeli soldiers walking through rubble in the northern Gaza Strip,
   November 2023

    Ronen Zvulun / Reuters

   Sign in and save to read later
   Share
   Print this article
   Save
   Send by email
   Share on Twitter
   Share on Facebook
   Share on LinkedIn
   Get a link
   Page url _____________________ 
   Request Reprint Permissions
   0:00 Play
   Download Article

   In a barbaric surprise attack launched by Hamas on October 7, more Jews
   were slaughtered than on any day since the Holocaust. Thousands of elite
   Hamas militants from the Gaza Strip infiltrated small communities and
   cities in southern Israel, where they proceeded to commit sadistic,
   repulsive crimes against humanity, filming their vile deeds and boasting
   about them to friends and family back home.

   The assault was devastating for the Israeli people. Around 1,200 people
   were killed that day (the equivalent of around 42,500 Americans, adjusting
   for population) and some 240 were kidnapped—including young children and
   elderly people—and taken into Hamas’s vast tunnel network beneath Gaza.

   It was also devastating for the Israeli state. On that fateful day, the
   country’s long-standing security doctrine crumbled in the face of a
   perfect storm; as a consequence, its intelligence and military
   institutions were unable to keep citizens safe. For years, the country’s
   political and military establishment had allowed intolerable threats to
   gather by seeking to maintain the status quo in the conflict with the
   Palestinians and to establish a modus vivendi with the de facto Hamas
   state in Gaza based on deterrence, aiming to extend periods of
   tranquility.

   Israel cannot return to the status quo that existed before October 7. The
   state’s task now is to bring all the hostages back home and to make it
   impossible for Hamas and other adversaries, notably the Iranian-backed
   Lebanese militant group Hezbollah, to carry out further terrorist attacks
   against Israeli citizens or pose direct threats to their security.
   Simultaneously, the government and the political establishment must accept
   responsibility for their strategic errors. They should prioritize national
   security interests above political survival and work to foster unity among
   Israelis, preparing them for the demanding times and challenges that lie
   ahead. And once the danger posed by Hamas has been eliminated, Israel must
   renew the process of promoting stable security and political arrangements
   with the Palestinians.

   A necessary paradigm shift is now underway. But a paradigm can shift in
   many different directions. For the sake of Israel’s future, this one must
   push the country’s defense institutions and security strategy back toward
   certain basic principles from which they have strayed in recent years.

  KNOW YOUR ENEMY

   Israel’s national security doctrine was initially crafted in the
   mid-twentieth century under the country’s first prime minister, David
   Ben-Gurion. Over the decades, it has been updated to include four main
   pillars: deterrence, early warning, defense, and decisive victory.

   Deterrence is an intricate art. Its waning can be discerned in real time,
   yet its definitive breakdown becomes evident only in retrospect. In this
   case, there were plenty of reasons why Hamas ceased to be deterred and
   concluded the time was right to attack. Because of Israel’s overreliance
   on deterrence, and its tacit acceptance of a prolonged buildup of Hamas
   forces in Gaza (facilitated by Iranian funding and expertise), the group
   had achieved an unusually high level of operational readiness to carry out
   a major attack. It had also identified significant vulnerabilities in
   Israel’s defenses around Gaza. Hamas may have calculated there was a good
   chance that a major assault and the likely Israeli response might spark
   violence on other fronts, including inside Israel—as was the case with an
   escalation of the fighting in Gaza in May 2021 that provoked clashes among
   Arabs and Jews in cities across Israel.

   Meanwhile, the progress of talks intended to produce the normalization of
   relations between Israel and Saudi Arabia heightened the concerns of both
   Hamas and Iran, which fear the further consolidation of a bloc opposed to
   the Islamic Republic and its allies and proxies—the so-called axis of
   resistance—and worry about Israel’s deeper integration into the region.
   Hamas presumably believed a major attack would thwart this process.

     Deterrence’s waning can be discerned in real time, yet its breakdown
     becomes evident only in retrospect.

   Hamas was likely encouraged by the impression that Israel’s internal
   political crisis—sparked by extensive protests against Prime Minister
   Benjamin Netanyahu’s proposal to curtail the power of the Israeli Supreme
   Court—had diverted attention from Gaza and significantly undermined
   Israel’s social cohesion and steadfastness. It is worth noting that
   officials with Israel’s Military Intelligence Directorate, the chief of
   staff of the Israel Defense Forces (IDF), and the minister of defense had
   all cautioned Netanyahu about Israel appearing historically weak in the
   eyes of its adversaries. Despite these warnings conveyed in recent months
   through a series of letters, Netanyahu chose to disregard them.

   According to Israel’s security doctrine, when deterrence fails, the
   intelligence community assumes the vital role of providing early warning,
   enabling the IDF to prepare and respond effectively to the threat. But a
   catastrophic misconception had taken hold within the Israeli intelligence
   community in recent years, just as happened in the run-up to the Yom
   Kippur War in 1973. During that time, the intelligence community wrongly
   assessed that Egypt and Syria would not dare to engage in a war they could
   not win, failing to comprehend Egyptian President Anwar al-Sadat’s goal of
   breaking the status quo.

   As a jihadi terror organization aligned with Iran and its axis of
   resistance, Hamas’s fundamental aspiration is to inflict harm on Israel
   and undermine the state, with the ultimate aim of obliterating it. But
   Israeli intelligence and decision-makers had come to believe that Hamas’s
   responsibilities in Gaza—where it essentially governed a de facto state of
   over two million Palestinians—had tempered its extremism. Hamas
   deceitfully encouraged this misperception in recent years, posing as a
   reliable actor and warning of escalation if Israel did not allow funding
   from Qatar to arrive in Gaza and did not permit more Gazan workers in
   Israel. When Israel agreed to those concessions, Hamas used the resulting
   money and the information gathered from Gazans allowed to work in Israel
   to clandestinely plot its murderous offensive.

   This failure to properly comprehend Hamas’s nature and its intentions
   dates back to the 2005 Israeli withdrawal from Gaza and the subsequent
   Hamas coup against the Palestinian Authority there. Since then, Israel had
   operated on the premise that a deterred and weakened Hamas was preferable
   to a governance vacuum in Gaza and would allow Israel to focus on what it
   perceived as more critical strategic challenges, such as Iran’s nuclear
   aspirations and Hezbollah’s military buildup. Accordingly, each time a
   flare-up occurred in Gaza, Israel’s aim was to reestablish deterrence
   through a limited use of force. This allowed Hamas to carry out a
   long-term buildup of arms and military infrastructure and to improve its
   operational capabilities.

   A broken fence in Kfar Aza, Israel, November 2023

    Evelyn Hockstein / Reuters

   When deterrence falters and early warnings fail to materialize, Israel’s
   traditional security doctrine falls back on its third pillar: the IDF’s
   defensive capabilities. In the past decade, the IDF has succeeded in
   mitigating two central threats from Gaza: rocket attacks (which Israel’s
   Iron Dome defense system intercepts) and tunnels infiltrating Israeli
   territory (which were neutralized by an underground antitunnel barrier
   that Israel completed along the border with Gaza in 2021). But Israel
   failed to imagine an aboveground invasion and did not reinforce defenses
   around Gaza in proportion to Hamas’s growing military capabilities,
   deviating from a key lesson learned during the Yom Kippur War: organize
   defense according to an adversary’s capabilities and not only to its
   assessed intentions. Consequently, Israeli forces in the area were
   outnumbered and caught off guard after the IDF reduced its troop presence
   around Gaza and granted leave to many soldiers during the Sukkot holiday.

   The IDF had also become overly reliant on technological means of defending
   the border, such as cameras, advanced sensors, and remotely operated
   machine guns. Hamas used drones to neutralize those tools and breached the
   barrier with bulldozers: a combination of high-tech and low-tech means
   unlike anything Israel had anticipated.

   The fourth pillar of Israel’s security doctrine is the concept of
   achieving a decisive military outcome—that is, securing an uncontested
   victory over the enemy by neutralizing both its military capabilities and
   its resolve to continue fighting. This idea has sparked extensive debate
   among experts and senior IDF leaders for many years about how to define
   “decisive outcome” and “victory” and how to apply them to conflicts with
   nonstate actors and terrorist groups. Israel now understands that although
   the jihadi ideology of Hamas may persist (as have those of the Islamic
   State, or ISIS, and al Qaeda), the IDF must dismantle the organization’s
   military capabilities.

  THE GOAL IN GAZA

   In the wake of Hamas’s brutal attack, Israel has come to see that it
   cannot coexist with a jihadi Islamist state akin to ISIS at its doorstep
   in Gaza. The era of intermittent cycles of fighting and cease-fires in
   Gaza is over. What will replace it is a continuous, protracted military
   campaign, one driven not by a desire for revenge but grounded in Israel’s
   paramount security interests and an unwavering commitment to the safe
   return of the hostages being held by Hamas.

   Israel’s ground operation was only the first step, and the military effort
   will persist after the withdrawal of IDF forces from Gaza. An effective
   Israeli strategy demands the integration of several interrelated, parallel
   endeavors—military, civilian, and political—executed methodically within a
   structured framework, which must be continually realigned with the
   expectations of the Israeli public and combined with a diplomatic campaign
   that will secure the assistance and support that the country will need
   from allies and partners.

   This war marks a return to the conditions outlined in the Oslo accords,
   which underscored Israel’s unwillingness to tolerate an armed Palestinian
   entity on its borders. The Israeli government is also seeking to restore
   the public’s trust in the IDF and other state institutions and send a
   signal that harming Israeli citizens will yield an unbearable cost for the
   country’s adversaries and lead to their eventual destruction. The extent
   of the damage inflicted by Hamas on Israel demands a decisive response,
   even if it entails significant sacrifices. The people of Israel, rallying
   for reserve duty in unprecedented numbers and orchestrating volunteer
   organizations to aid survivors and displaced people, are acutely aware of
   the formidable challenge ahead and are willing to bear the necessary
   burdens and costs.

     Israel believed that Hamas’s responsibilities in Gaza had tempered its
     extremism.

   The realistic objectives of the current ground phase of the war are not to
   eliminate every Hamas operative or completely demilitarize Gaza but to
   degrade Hamas (and its sometime ally, Palestinian Islamic Jihad) as a
   fighting force, destroy its infrastructure, and eliminate the direct
   threat it poses to Israeli communities near Gaza. This will require the
   destruction of Hamas’s nerve center in Gaza City, its underground
   facilities, and all its aboveground assets, such as military
   installations, headquarters, command-and-control centers, communications
   infrastructure, weapons manufacturing facilities, and arms depots.

   In selecting targets to bomb or raid, the IDF painstakingly attempts to
   distinguish Hamas operatives and infrastructure from the noncombatant
   civilian population in accordance with the laws of war. This task is
   complicated by the intense density of Gaza’s population within which Hamas
   deliberately operates and entrenches its military infrastructure and by
   the network of approximately 300 miles of tunnels that Hamas has built
   during the past 15 years, subterranean fortifications that stretch beneath
   every city in Gaza, often under critical civilian structures such as
   hospitals and schools.

   To contend with the dilemma this poses, the IDF has consistently urged
   Gazans to evacuate the main operational zone in the northern part of Gaza
   and move south through secure corridors the IDF has established.
   Furthermore, the IDF refrains from striking Hamas military targets in
   which many civilians reside, allowing them to evacuate. Despite these
   precautions, the war has nevertheless produced a significant number of
   civilian casualties, frequently as a result of Hamas’s tactic of using
   civilians as human shields. Hamas obstructs the evacuation of civilians
   from operational areas and sites, and it has even targeted the secure
   crossings established by the IDF with mortars, intentionally impeding
   civilians from relocating to the southern Gaza Strip. In the face of such
   tactics, the IDF has gone to extraordinary lengths to prevent civilian
   causalities, exceeding the precautions taken by the militaries of most
   other democratic countries. As the war progresses, the IDF must maintain
   those standards, consistently communicate and demonstrate its commitment
   to adhere to the laws of war, and acknowledge any lapses on its own part.

   To alleviate human suffering and to maintain the legitimacy of its
   military effort, Israel has permitted the entry of humanitarian aid into
   Gaza through Egypt. This excludes supplies that would directly aid Hamas’s
   war effort, however, such as fuel beyond the amount required for
   operations that meet humanitarian needs such as hospitals, bakeries, water
   desalination, and sewage pumping. It was, after all, the influx of goods
   and energy that Israel allowed into Gaza in recent years that enabled
   Hamas to build the terrorist army that attacked Israeli territory on
   October 7.

   Israeli soldiers in the Gaza Strip, November 2023

    Ronen Zvulun / Reuters

   The ground operation will end only when Hamas ceases to function as a
   governing authority in Gaza and its military capabilities are
   significantly degraded. At that point, the campaign will transition to a
   new phase, likely spanning several years, at least until all the hostages
   have been released and have returned home safely. Targeted incursions into
   Gaza and airstrikes against Hamas will persist, and Israel will need to
   fortify a number of strategically significant areas near the border with
   Gaza to create a buffer zone to enhance border defense.

   Meanwhile, the IDF will need to keep an eye on the Lebanese border. Israel
   wants to keep Hezbollah out of the conflict but is prepared for a
   potential escalation on its northern border, whether due to a
   miscalculation or to an Iranian decision to order its proxy to open a new
   front in the war.

   Following the conclusion of the main ground operation in Gaza, Israel will
   need to confront the substantial threat posed by Hezbollah’s elite Radwan
   forces stationed along the Israeli-Lebanese border. These forces are a
   significant menace to Israel’s northern villages and cities, which had
   already been evacuated at the onset of the war in Gaza. Israel must
   mobilize international pressure on Lebanon and Hezbollah to enforce and
   abide by the provisions of UN Security Council Resolution 1701, which
   prohibits Hezbollah (and any armed forces other than UN peacekeepers and
   the Lebanese military) from maintaining a military presence south of the
   Litani River, which runs about 18 miles north of the Israeli border, with
   the nearest point only 2.5 miles from the border. If diplomatic efforts
   prove unsuccessful, Israel will stand ready to take military action, even
   at the risk of escalating the hostilities into a broader conflict with
   Hezbollah.

  GAZA AND GEOPOLITICS

   To win this war, Israel will require the support of partners who share its
   strategic interests. A number of Arab states, the United States, and
   European countries will play pivotal roles. Their contributions will
   encompass military funding and support, a global campaign to curtail
   Hamas’s funding, humanitarian assistance for civilians and displaced
   persons within Gaza (and possibly beyond), reconstruction efforts,
   information campaigns to counter anti-Israeli and anti-Jewish propaganda
   worldwide, and, most crucially, the establishment of a legitimate
   governing authority in Gaza.

   Under the leadership of President Joe Biden, the United States has played
   an important role in Israel’s wartime decision-making, counseling
   restraint to prevent escalation in the north, demanding adherence to the
   laws of armed conflict, and pushing Israel to address the humanitarian
   crisis in Gaza. In the weeks since October 7, the Biden administration has
   deployed an unprecedented level of military aid and support. Aircraft
   carriers and U.S. forces have been rushed to the region on an unparalleled
   scale, intended to deter Iran and Hezbollah from intervening in the war,
   to protect American forces in the area from numerous attacks by other
   Iranian-backed Shiite militias, and to offer a robust response to such
   attacks. It is noteworthy, however, that Israel maintains its fundamental
   principle of defending itself by itself, refraining from requesting U.S.
   involvement at the cost of U.S. casualties.

   Many European countries have also demonstrated unwavering support for
   Israel, extending beyond their immediate concerns regarding the safety of
   the European citizens held hostage by Hamas. High-ranking European leaders
   such as French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz,
   and British Prime Minister Rishi Sunak have visited Israel to express
   solidarity. During his visit in late October, Macron even called for the
   establishment of an international coalition to combat Hamas, modeled on
   the one that has taken on ISIS since 2014.

   To secure the ongoing assistance of American and European leaders, many of
   whom are contending with domestic criticism of their support, Israel needs
   to enhance its geopolitical alignment with the bloc best represented by
   the United States and its NATO allies. This may involve a reevaluation of
   Israel’s Ukraine policy, potentially leading to increased support for
   Kyiv’s defense against Russian aggression. Additionally, Israel should
   strive to further increase humanitarian aid to Gaza, make clear that it
   does not intend to permanently occupy the territory, consistently reaffirm
   its adherence to the laws of war (and acknowledge any errors in that
   regard), and place its mission in Gaza within the context of a broader
   Israeli-Palestinian political process that can advance robust security
   arrangements and sustain the viability of the two-state solution.

     The era of intermittent cycles of fighting and cease-fires in Gaza is
     over.

   In public, the leaders of many Arab states, including those with whom
   Israel maintains relations, have roundly condemned its war in Gaza, driven
   by the fear of unrest and domestic instability. Behind closed doors,
   however, they worry about the threat of a resurgent Hamas, an extremist
   Muslim Brotherhood organization that has always posed a grave threat to
   Arab regimes—and serves the interests of their primary regional rival,
   Iran. Governments in Egypt, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab
   Emirates fear that any success Hamas achieves in the current struggle will
   embolden Sunni jihadi forces in their own countries and Shiite militias
   that Iran backs in nearby states such as Iraq, Lebanon, and Yemen.

   In terms of securing global support for the war against Hamas outside of
   Europe, the United States, and the Gulf, the picture darkens. China and
   Russia have abstained from publicly condemning the Hamas attack, have
   sought to curtail Israel’s efforts to dismantle the organization by
   calling for an immediate cease-fire, and have unleashed anti-Semitic
   propaganda on social media and state-controlled media outlets. For its
   part, Russia is driven by a desire to divert the West’s attention and
   resources away from the war in Ukraine and believes it will benefit from a
   heightened Middle East conflict. There is little reason to think Israel
   can do anything to change Moscow’s orientation.

   China’s position, however, is more nuanced. More than anything, the
   country fears a regional conflict that could trigger a surge in oil prices
   that might damage its flagging post-COVID economic recovery. Given
   Israel’s alignment with the West and the United States, it might be
   difficult for Israel to influence China’s policy toward its war efforts in
   Gaza. But Israel could leverage Beijing’s concerns about regional
   escalation to encourage it to pressure Iran to restrain Hezbollah and its
   proxies in Iraq and Yemen. Simultaneously, Israel must strengthen its
   strategic ties with India, which has notably supported Israel and
   condemned the Hamas attack; strong relations with New Delhi could help
   counter the criticism Israel faces from other countries in the global
   South.

  THE STRUGGLE BACK HOME

   Alongside the complex military and diplomatic operations, Israeli leaders
   must launch a number of initiatives at home that will be no less
   challenging. First, they must begin to restore a sense of normality in a
   traumatized society, beginning with the rebuilding of the communities near
   Gaza’s border devastated by the Hamas attack and the repatriation of
   residents who fled their homes in Israel’s north as a precaution against
   an attack by Hezbollah. Economic activities throughout Israel should
   recommence immediately and should gradually return to their customary
   levels.

   More fundamentally, the government must work to restore trust in the
   state’s institutions among Israeli citizens. This will require new and
   unified leadership, the coordinated mobilization of all government
   ministries, and an official investigation into the origins of the Hamas
   attack. The current government—and especially Netanyahu—is unfit for this
   task. He and his close allies, after all, are responsible for the failure
   to address the problem of Gaza and Hamas over the past 15 years and for
   the unprecedented rift in Israeli society that reduced its preparedness in
   the months leading up to the attack. Israel will have to hold elections as
   soon as possible after the ground operation in Gaza ends, as long as
   security conditions, including in the north, allow for it.

   Even before the main ground operation concludes and Israeli troops
   withdraw, Israel should initiate a dialogue with Arab countries and
   international partners to formulate a plan for the future governance of
   Gaza. The most promising approach would be the establishment of an interim
   administration to oversee the territory until the Palestinian Authority is
   capable of assuming that role. This administration would be led by the
   United States and the five Arab states that have established peace
   agreements with Israel. To pave the way for the PA’s eventual return to
   Gaza, the international community, with Israeli assistance and
   coordination, must work with the PA to build its governing capacities and
   address the corruption in its ranks.

   Significant backing from the affluent Gulf Arab states will be
   indispensable to tackle the diverse economic, political, and security
   aspects of governance in Gaza. In this regard, the renewal of
   normalization talks between Israel and Saudi Arabia is crucial, as will be
   the integration of the kingdom into the project of governing Gaza.
   Tehran’s role in helping Hamas develop in recent years may have heightened
   the level of interest in normalization within the anti-Iranian bloc of
   Arab countries. A new Israeli government committed to strengthening the PA
   and maintaining an open perspective on a two-state solution could further
   propel the normalization process forward.

   A war against Hamas and the possibility of discussing a two-state solution
   may appear to sit uneasily. But since its inception, Hamas has opposed and
   undermined the prospect of two states; whenever talks between Israel and
   the Palestine Liberation Organization seemed to gain momentum, Hamas
   reliably launched terror attacks. The organization adamantly rejects the
   Oslo accords, refuses to acknowledge Israel’s right to exist, and openly
   pursues its destruction. Consequently, the removal of Hamas from power in
   Gaza is not an impediment to the two-state idea: it is a necessary
   (although not sufficient) condition for any positive advancements in the
   Israeli-Palestinian relationship and in the Middle East in general.

  BACK TO BASICS

   In the wake of the trauma of October 7, Israel finds itself in a new
   reality. Going forward, it will have to set aside perceptions, beliefs,
   and assumptions that have become customary in recent years and return to
   some foundational principles that it has neglected.

   To deal with the presence of threatening military forces along its
   borders, Israel may find it necessary to shift from a reactive strategy of
   retaliation to a more proactive approach involving preventive strikes.
   Dismantling the Hamas regime in Gaza will help restore deterrence. The
   country will also need to reassess, enhance, and potentially overhaul its
   early-warning system, especially by increasing the use of human
   intelligence sources. The IDF will also need to shift its focus to
   anticipating breaches and building secondary lines of defense. The onus of
   achieving decisive outcomes will always rest on Israel’s shoulders.
   Despite Israel’s enduring commitment to self-reliance, however, it may
   prove necessary to formulate a more closely coordinated joint strategy
   with the United States, the country’s most steadfast ally, and even some
   additional partners.

   The last time Israel faced a challenge even remotely like this was in
   1973. And at first, the Yom Kippur War seemed like a defeat for Israel;
   the Arab states certainly saw it that way. In the end, however, Israel
   came out on top, and its victory led to a groundbreaking peace agreement
   with Egypt—an outcome that set in motion virtually every positive
   development that has taken place in the region since then. It is too early
   to tell whether Israel will be able to once again turn suffering and loss
   into peace and progress. But even in this grim new reality, there is some
   cause for hope.

   Loading...
   Please enable JavaScript for this site to function properly.

  You are reading a free article.

    Subscribe to Foreign Affairs to get unlimited access.

     * Paywall-free reading of new articles and over a century of archives
     * Unlock access to iOS/Android apps to save editions for offline reading
     * Six issues a year in print, online, and audio editions
   Subscribe Now
     * AMOS YADLIN is a retired Major General in the Israeli Air Force and
       served as the head of Israel’s Military Intelligence Directorate from
       2006 to 2010. He is Founder and President of MIND Israel, a consulting
       firm.
     * UDI EVENTAL is a retired Colonel in the Israel Defense Forces and a
       Senior Adviser at MIND Israel.
     * More By Amos Yadlin
     * More By Udi Evental
   More:
   United States Middle East Israel Palestinian Territories Geopolitics
   Security Defense & Military Strategy & Conflict Terrorism &
   Counterterrorism War & Military Strategy U.S. Foreign Policy Biden
   Administration Hamas Israeli-Palestinian Conflict Benjamin Netanyahu
   Israel-Hamas War Hezbollah

Most-Read Articles

  How to Thwart China’s Bid to Lead the Global South

   America Should See India as a Bridge to the Rest of the World

    Happymon Jacob

  In Dealing With the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict, America Has No Easy Way Out

   Biden Must Take Risks, Talk Straight, and Act Boldly

    Aaron David Miller and Daniel C. Kurtzer

  The Best of 2023

   Our Editors’ Top Picks From Print and Web

  Blundering on the Brink

   The Secret History and Unlearned Lessons of the Cuban Missile Crisis

    Sergey Radchenko and Vladislav Zubok

  Recommended Articles

   At Jabalia refugee camp in the northern Gaza Strip, November 2023

  The Virtues of Restraint

   Why the Use of Force Is Rarely a Sufficient Response to Terrorism

    Shivshankar Menon

   Palestinians protesting in support of the people of Gaza, Hebron, West
   Bank, October 2023

  What Palestinians Really Think of Hamas

   Before the War, Gaza’s Leaders Were Deeply Unpopular—but an Israeli
   Crackdown Could Change That

    Amaney A. Jamal and Michael Robbins

  Stay informed.

   In-depth analysis delivered weekly.
   Sign Up

   Get the Magazine

    Save up to 55%

      on Foreign Affairs!

   Subscribe

   Foreign Affairs

    Weekly Newsletter

      Get in-depth analysis delivered right to your inbox

   Sign Up
   About
   About Us Staff Events Work at Foreign Affairs Podcast
   Contact
   Customer Service Contact Us Submissions Permissions Advertise Press Center
   Leave Us Feedback Frequently Asked Questions
   Subscription
   Subscriptions Institutional Subscriptions My Account Give a Gift Donate
   Download iOS App Newsletters Download Android App
   Follow
   Graduate School Forum
   Council on Foreign Relations

   From the
   publishers of
   Foreign Affairs

   Cyber Week in Review: December 22, 2023
   Kat Duffy
   Women This Week: Aid Cuts Disproportionately Affect Women-Led Households
   in Afghanistan
   Amazon Deforestation Down But Little to Show for COP28, Plus
   Venezuela-Guyana Tensions
   Author:Shannon K. O'Neil

   Published by the Council on Foreign Relations

   Privacy Policy Terms of Use

   ©2023 Council on Foreign Relations, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

    Cookies on ForeignAffairs.com

   This website uses cookies to improve your experience. You can opt-out of
   certain cookies using the cookie management page.

   Manage CookiesAccept and Continue
   ×
   Loading Loading
