   Skip Navigation
   logo
   (BUTTON) logo
   Markets
     * Pre-Markets
     * U.S. Markets
     * Europe Markets
     * China Markets
     * Asia Markets
     * World Markets
     * Currencies
     * Cryptocurrency
     * Futures & Commodities
     * Bonds
     * Funds & ETFs

   Business
     * Economy
     * Finance
     * Health & Science
     * Media
     * Real Estate
     * Energy
     * Climate
     * Transportation
     * Industrials
     * Retail
     * Wealth
     * Sports
     * Life
     * Small Business

   Investing
     * Personal Finance
     * Fintech
     * Financial Advisors
     * Options Action
     * ETF Street
     * Buffett Archive
     * Earnings
     * Trader Talk

   Tech
     * Cybersecurity
     * Enterprise
     * Internet
     * Media
     * Mobile
     * Social Media
     * CNBC Disruptor 50
     * Tech Guide

   Politics
     * White House
     * Policy
     * Defense
     * Congress
     * Equity and Opportunity
     * Europe Politics
     * China Politics
     * Asia Politics
     * World Politics

   CNBC TV
     * Live Audio
     * Latest Video
     * Top Video
     * CEO Interviews
     * Europe TV
     * Asia TV
     * CNBC Podcasts
     * Digital Originals

   Watchlist
   Investing Club
     * Trust Portfolio
     * Analysis
     * Trade Alerts
     * Meeting Videos
     * Homestretch
     * Jim's Columns
     * Education
     * Subscribe
     * Sign In

   PRO
     * Pro News
     * Pro Live
     * Stock ScreenerNEW!
     * Market Forecast
     * Options Investing
     * Subscribe
     * Sign In

   NEW!
   (BUTTON) Menu
     * Make It
     * (BUTTON) select
          + ALL SELECT
          + Credit Cards
          + Loans
          + Banking
          + Mortgages
          + Insurance
          + Credit Monitoring
          + Personal Finance
          + Small Business
          + Taxes
          + Help for Low Credit Scores
          + Investing
          + SELECT
          + All Credit Cards
          + Find the Credit Card for You
          + Best Credit Cards
          + Best Rewards Credit Cards
          + Best Travel Credit Cards
          + Best 0% APR Credit Cards
          + Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards
          + Best Cash Back Credit Cards
          + Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses
          + Best Credit Cards to Build Credit
          + SELECT
          + All Loans
          + Find the Best Personal Loan for You
          + Best Personal Loans
          + Best Debt Consolidation Loans
          + Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt
          + Best Loans with Fast Funding
          + Best Small Personal Loans
          + Best Large Personal Loans
          + Best Personal Loans to Apply Online
          + Best Student Loan Refinance
          + SELECT
          + All Banking
          + Find the Savings Account for You
          + Best High Yield Savings Accounts
          + Best Big Bank Savings Accounts
          + Best Big Bank Checking Accounts
          + Best No Fee Checking Accounts
          + No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts
          + Best Checking Account Bonuses
          + Best Money Market Accounts
          + Best CDs
          + Best Credit Unions
          + SELECT
          + All Mortgages
          + Best Mortgages
          + Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment
          + Best Mortgages for No Down Payment
          + Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee
          + Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score
          + Adjustable Rate Mortgages
          + Affording a Mortgage
          + SELECT
          + All Insurance
          + Best Life Insurance
          + Best Homeowners Insurance
          + Best Renters Insurance
          + Best Car Insurance
          + Travel Insurance
          + SELECT
          + All Credit Monitoring
          + Best Credit Monitoring Services
          + Best Identity Theft Protection
          + How to Boost Your Credit Score
          + Credit Repair Services
          + SELECT
          + All Personal Finance
          + Best Budgeting Apps
          + Best Expense Tracker Apps
          + Best Money Transfer Apps
          + Best Resale Apps and Sites
          + Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps
          + Best Debt Relief
          + SELECT
          + All Small Business
          + Best Small Business Savings Accounts
          + Best Small Business Checking Accounts
          + Best Credit Cards for Small Business
          + Best Small Business Loans
          + Best Tax Software for Small Business
          + SELECT
          + All Taxes
          + Best Tax Software
          + Best Tax Software for Small Businesses
          + Tax Refunds
          + SELECT
          + All Help for Low Credit Scores
          + Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit
          + Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit
          + Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit
          + Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit
          + Best Credit Cards for Building Credit
          + Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower
          + Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower
          + Best Mortgages for Bad Credit
          + Best Hardship Loans
          + How to Boost Your Credit Score
          + SELECT
          + All Investing
          + Best IRA Accounts
          + Best Roth IRA Accounts
          + Best Investing Apps
          + Best Free Stock Trading Platforms
          + Best Robo-Advisors
          + Index Funds
          + Mutual Funds
          + ETFs
          + Bonds

     * USA
     * INTL

   (BUTTON) Search quotes, news & videos
   Watchlist
   (BUTTON)
   SIGN IN
   (BUTTON) logo
   Markets
   Business
   Investing
   Tech
   Politics
   CNBC TV
   Watchlist
   Investing Club
   PRO
   NEW!
   (BUTTON) Menu

   Updated Thu, Nov 16 202311:54 AM EST
   Share (BUTTON) Share Article via Facebook (BUTTON) Share Article via
   Twitter (BUTTON) Share Article via LinkedIn (BUTTON) Share Article via
   Email

Russia says it's 'destroying' Ukrainians that crossed into occupied
territory, vowing to inflict 'hell' on them

   Holly Ellyatt

   This was CNBC's live blog tracking developments on the war in Ukraine.

   Fierce fighting has erupted between Russian forces and Ukrainian units
   that crossed over the Dnieper River to the Russian-occupied eastern
   bank of the river in the southern Kherson region.

   Battles are concentrated around a number of villages on the east or
   left bank of the river where Ukraine has managed to establish several
   footholds, but Russian forces are now reported to be pounding those
   positions.

   A Russian-installed official in the occupied part of Kherson said
   Russian forces were "destroying" Ukrainian forces "on the largest
   scale" in the village of Krynky, where he claimed they had been
   trapped.
   A group of Ukrainian marines at the bank of the Dnieper River at the
   front line near Kherson, Ukraine, on Oct. 14, 2023.
   Alex Babenko | AP

   Analysts at the Institute for the Study of War painted a picture of
   mixed fortunes for Ukrainian forces in the area, citing Ukrainian
   officials, Russian military bloggers closely following developments in
   the war and open-source evidence.

   In other news, Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Wednesday that
   any internal and external attempts to interfere with the 2024
   presidential election in Russia will be suppressed.

   Putin said any measures necessary will be taken to prevent any illegal
   obstruction of the election, including any pressure applied to the
   electoral process. Russia has long been accused of interfering in the
   electoral processes of other countries, particularly the U.S. vote in
   2016, although it denies the allegations.
   Thu, Nov 16 202310:20 AM EST

Russian opposition politician sentenced to eight years in prison: State media

   Vladimir Milov, a Russian opposition politician, was sentenced in
   absentia to eight years in a prison for intentionally spreading false
   information about the Russian Armed Forces, Russian state news agency
   Interfax reported Thursday. A video on YouTube was cited as the basis
   for the case.

   Milov previously worked under President Vladimir Putin but became
   disillusioned with the track that Russia's geopolitical approach was on
   and now lives abroad.

   His sentence would begin as soon as he were detained on Russian
   territory or extradited to Russia, Interfax reported.

   — Sophie Kiderlin
   Thu, Nov 16 20239:55 AM EST

One dead, four injured by Russian shelling, governor of Kherson Oblast says

   One person has died and four others have been wounded by Russian
   shelling on the town of Bilozerka in Kherson Oblast, the local governor
   Oleksandr Prokudin said Thursday. This comes as fighting has
   accelerated in the Kherson region in southern Ukraine in recent days.

   In a post on Telegram, translated via Google Translate, he said one man
   had been pulled out from under rubble from a house that was affected in
   the attacks. Those injured have been taken to hospital, Produkin said.

   The governor said residential buildings and a grocery store had been
   hit, as well as important infrastructure. Bilozerka and surrounding
   towns were out of electricity, he said.

   CNBC could not independently verify reports on the ground.

   — Sophie Kiderlin
   Thu, Nov 16 20239:22 AM EST

Russia's relationship with Israel, in 60 seconds

   Russia is turning increasingly hostile toward Israel. But what has been
   their relationship over the past 75 years and how has it changed?

   Watch the video to find out more.
   Russia's relationship with Israel, in 60 seconds
   watch now
   VIDEO0:5900:59
   Russia's relationship with Israel, in 60 seconds
   News Videos
   Thu, Nov 16 20238:28 AM EST

Russian court jails artist for seven years over anti-war protest

   Russian artist Alexandra Skochilenko, 33, accused of spreading
   disinformation about the Russian army for changing supermarket price
   tags with messages criticising Russia's military offensive in Ukraine,
   gestures from inside a defendants' cage during her verdict hearing at a
   court in Saint Petersburg on November 16, 2023. (Photo by Olga MALTSEVA
   / AFP) (Photo by OLGA MALTSEVA/AFP via Getty Images)
   Olga Maltseva | Afp | Getty Images

   A Russian court on Thursday found artist and musician Alexandra
   Skochilenko guilty of knowingly spreading fake news about the Russian
   army's behavior in Ukraine and sentenced her to seven years in a prison
   colony.

   Skochilenko, 33, replaced price tags in a supermarket in her native St
   Petersburg on March 31 2022 with small pieces of paper urging an end to
   Russia's war in Ukraine and criticising the authorities.

   She denied the formal charge of knowingly spreading false information
   about the army.

   — Reuters
   Thu, Nov 16 20238:12 AM EST

Russia's Black Sea fleet forced to retreat, Zelenskyy says

   Sailors stand at attention on the deck of a Russian Black Sea Fleet
   warship during the Navy Day celebrations in the port city of
   Novorossiysk on July 30, 2023.
   Stringer | Afp | Getty Images

   Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Thursday that Russia's
   naval fleet was forced to retreat from the eastern part of the Black
   Sea.

   "We were able to intercept Russia's initiative in the Black Sea and
   created such security conditions that force the aggressor to flee from
   the eastern part of the water area and try to hide warships," Zelenskyy
   said on Telegram.

   "As one of the main results of our actions, Russia is unable to use the
   Black Sea as a springboard to destabilize other regions of the world."

   CNBC could not confirm the report.

   Ukraine increased its attacks on Russia's prized Black Sea fleet and
   its headquarters and port infrastructure this year, essentially forcing
   much of the fleet to relocate away from its home base of Sevastopol in
   Russian-occupied Crimea. A number of vessels were transferred to ports
   that flank the Kerch Strait in Novorossiysk, on the Russian mainland,
   and Feodosia on the Crimean coast.

   — Holly Ellyatt
   Thu, Nov 16 20236:22 AM EST

Russia says its 'destroying' Ukrainian forces that crossed into occupied
territory

   Russian forces say they are inflicting heavy losses on Ukrainian
   troops that crossed over the Dnieper River to the Russian-occupied
   eastern bank.

   Russia confirmed that Ukrainian units had crossed the Dnieper and
   conceded that its forces had initially been outnumbered. Since then,
   however, it has warned it had brought in additional forces and that it
   would inflict "hell" on Ukrainian units. Various analysis suggests
   Russia is now pummeling units trying to defend positions along the east
   bank, with the village of Krynky being an epicenter of fighting.

   Vladimir Saldo, the Russian-installed governor of the occupied part of
   the Kherson region, said Russian forces were pounding Ukrainian
   positions on Thursday.

   "In Krynky, our military is now destroying the enemy on the largest
   scale," Saldo said on Telegram Thursday, saying that Russian forces
   were "surprised at how much the Ukrainian command does not value the
   lives of its personnel, sending them to their death in dozens and
   hundreds."
   "Therefore, it is not surprising that the flow of Ukrainian prisoners
   from the left bank of the Dnieper does not dry up," he said.

   Saldo claimed yesterday that Ukrainian forces were blocked in the
   village of Krynky where "a fiery hell" awaited them. "Bombs, missiles,
   ammunition from heavy flamethrower systems, artillery shells, and
   drones are flying at him [Ukrainian forces] ... Over the last two or
   three days alone, the enemy's total losses amounted to about a hundred
   militants," Saldo said.

   CNBC was unable to verify developments on the battlefield.
   Thu, Nov 16 20235:24 AM EST

Putin met business leaders to try to attract investment back to Russia,
Kremlin says

   Russian President Vladimir Putin met with the country's business
   leaders Wednesday in a bid to encourage them to invest more in Russia,
   Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said Thursday.

   "The discussion was about possible steps to improve the investment
   attractiveness of our economy, to create more than competitive
   conditions for completing the process of transferring companies here,"
   Peskov said, according to comments published by Russian news agency RIA
   Novosti.
   Russian President Vladimir Putin at an awarding ceremony at the
   Novo-Ogaryovo State Residence, on Nov. 15, 2023, in Moscow, Russia.
   Contributor | Getty Images News | Getty Images

   Peskov said Putin discussed completing the process of redomiciling
   businesses, claiming that "the vast majority of entrepreneurs who took
   part have in one way or another encountered illegal treatment abroad,
   and now the process of transferring their business to Russian
   jurisdiction is actively under way, using all available mechanisms."

   Russia's invasion of Ukraine and the subsequent imposition of
   international sanctions made it difficult for Western businesses to
   continue operations in Russia, and vice versa. Putin has looked to
   encourage more domestic investment, and has approved the seizing of
   Russian subsidiaries of international companies, including Danone and
   Carlsberg.

   — Holly Ellyatt
   Thu, Nov 16 20233:55 AM EST

Russia likely attempting pincer movement to encircle Avdiivka, UK says

   Russia is almost certainly attempting a pincer movement to encircle the
   town of Avdiivka, a fighting hot spot in the eastern Ukrainian region
   of Donetsk, Britain's Ministry of Defense said Thursday.

   "Over the last week, Russian forces have continued attacks towards
   outlying villages of the contested town of Avdiivka," the ministry said
   on X, formerly known as Twitter.

   Avdiivka is a small town but holds strategic importance for both sides.
   It has been fought over for nearly a decade, given fighting between
   pro-Russian separatists and Ukrainian forces since 2014, and holds
   political significance for Russia given its proximity to the city of
   Donetsk.

   "Recent advances have likely brought Russian forces close to the
   Ukrainian-held Avdiivka Coke and Chemical Plant, a sprawling industrial
   complex which produces coke and a variety of chemicals, occupies a key
   tactical position to the north of the town," the U.K. noted.
   A view of Ukraine's Avdiivka city as an airstrike on the Metinvest coke
   plant is seen in the background on Oct. 30, 2023.
   Libkos | Getty Images News | Getty Images

   "The plant dominates the main road into Avdiivka and, if Russian forces
   were to secure it, resupplying the town would become increasingly
   difficult for Ukraine."

   However, the ministry noted, the industrial facility provides Ukraine
   with a localized defensive advantage and Russian forces will probably
   suffer significant personnel losses if they attempt to assault the
   facility.

   — Holly Ellyatt
   Thu, Nov 16 20233:23 AM EST

UK's new foreign minister visits Kyiv

   The U.K.'s new Foreign Secretary David Cameron is in Kyiv Wednesday,
   marking his first visit to Ukraine since taking up the role on Monday.

   Announcing the visit, Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the
   pair "had a good meeting focused on weapons for the frontline,
   strengthening air defense, and protecting our people and critical
   infrastructure."

   The U.K. is one of Ukraine's staunchest Western allies and one of its
   largest individual benefactors after the U.S.

   "As Foreign Secretary, supporting Ukraine against Putin's aggression is
   vital, which is why I am pleased to make this my first visit as
   Secretary of State," Cameron said in a statement released by the
   British government.

   "Russia thinks it can wait this war out, and that the West will
   eventually turn its attention elsewhere. This could not be further from
   the truth. In my first discussions with President Zelenskyy in my new
   role, I made clear that the U.K. and our partners will support Ukraine
   and its people for as long as it takes for them to achieve victory."

   — Holly Ellyatt
   Thu, Nov 16 20233:14 AM EST

Fierce fighting erupts after Ukrainian units cross Dnieper river into
occupied territory

   A group of Ukrainian marines at the bank of the Dnieper River at the
   front line near Kherson, Ukraine, on Oct. 14, 2023.
   Alex Babenko | AP

   Fierce fighting is taking place between Russian forces and Ukrainian
   units that crossed over the Dnieper River to the Russian-occupied left
   (or eastern) bank of the river in the southern Kherson region, analysts
   say.

   Fighting is concentrated around a number of villages on the east bank,
   including Krynky, where Ukraine has managed to establish footholds, but
   Russian forces are now reported to be pounding those positions. A
   Russian official warned Wednesday that "hell fire" would be rained down
   upon Ukrainian forces who had crossed the river.

   Analysts at the Institute for the Study of War painted a picture of
   mixed fortunes in the area, citing Ukrainian officials, Russian
   military bloggers closely following developments in the war and
   open-source evidence.

   "Ukrainian forces continued larger-than-usual operations on the east
   (left) bank of Kherson Oblast [region] on November 15," the ISW noted
   in analysis Wednesday.

   But it added that "Russian milbloggers claimed that Ukrainian forces
   conducted unsuccessful attacks from central Krynky ... [they] also
   claimed that Russian forces prevented Ukrainian forces from conducting
   casualty evacuation and deploying additional Ukrainian personnel to the
   east bank near the Antonivsky road bridge."

   The ISW also noted that geolocated footage published on Nov. 14 shows
   that Russian forces made some advances into Ukrainian-held Krynky, with
   Russian milbloggers claiming that the counterattacks by Russian forces
   forced Ukrainian forces to withdraw from some areas south of Krynky.

   CNBC was unable to verify developments on the ground and neither Russia
   nor Ukraine mentioned the battles taking place in the area in their
   military updates on Thursday. On Wednesday, Ukraine requested an
   "informational silence" around its maneuvers so that its "plans are put
   in motion."

   A senior Ukrainian official said Monday that Ukrainian forces managed
   to cross the Dnieper river which has essentially divided Russian and
   Ukrainian forces since a successful Ukrainian counteroffensive a year
   ago. Russia confirmed the development Wednesday.

   If Ukrainian forces can make progress on the eastern bank, it could
   herald the start of an advance southward to Russian-occupied Crimea.

   — Holly Ellyatt
   Wed, Nov 15 202311:29 AM EST

Russia's Putin says any interference attempts in Russian election will be
suppressed

   Russian President Vladimir Putin speaks after signing bilateral
   documents with his Kazakh counterpart Kassym-Jomart Tokayev in Astana,
   Kazakhstan November 9, 2023.
   Turar Kazangapov | Reuters

   Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Wednesday that any internal
   and external attempts to interfere with the 2024 presidential election
   in Russia will be suppressed, state media outlet TASS reported.

   Putin said any measures necessary would be taken to prevent illegal
   obstruction of the election, including any pressure applied to the
   electoral process, according to a Google translation of his comments.

   Putin has not confirmed if he will run for re-election next year,
   however various news reports have cited sources saying he plans to
   stand for election once again. If he were to be re-elected, his
   presidency could extend until 2030.

   Russia has long been accused of interfering in the electoral processes
   of other countries, particularly the U.S. vote in 2016.

   Last month, the U.S. released an intelligence assessment sent to more
   than 100 countries that found Moscow is using spies, social media and
   Russian state-run media to erode public faith in the integrity of
   democratic elections worldwide, Reuters reported. Russia has repeatedly
   rejected various accusations of interference.

   — Sophie Kiderlin, Holly Ellyatt
   Wed, Nov 15 20239:21 AM EST

West the biggest obstacle to peace in Ukraine, global survey finds

   The outcome of the war in Ukraine is considered a "determining, and
   even existential," factor in the future of the West, according to a
   survey of 21 countries published Wednesday by the European Council on
   Foreign Relations (ECFR) thinktank and Oxford University.

   The majority of respondents outside of Europe and the U.S. said they
   saw Western nations as a bigger obstacle to peace than Russia, and more
   still viewed Moscow as the ultimate victor in the conflict.

   Almost three quarters of non-European respondents who expected Russia
   to win the war also believed the European Union could "fall apart"
   within the next 20 years, while around one third of those in the U.S.
   and in Europe shared the view.

   For many, the conflict in Ukraine was considered a "proxy war" between
   the U.S. and Russia, with majorities in Russia, China, Saudi Arabia,
   and Turkey saying they believe two Cold War powers are "already at
   war."

   — Karen Gilchrist
   Wed, Nov 15 20239:22 AM EST

Russia pours cold water on forthcoming Xi-Biden talks

   Russian President Vladimir Putin speaks during his press conference at
   the Konstantin Palace on July 29, 2023 in Saint Petersburg, Russia.
   Contributor | Getty Images News | Getty Images

   There was more than a hint of schadenfreude in Russian state coverage
   of the forthcoming meeting between Chinese President Xi Jinping and his
   U.S. counterpart Joe Biden in San Francisco on Wednesday, with Russia
   accentuating the geopolitical gulf between the two superpowers.

   Russia will be watching the talks closely, given its alliance with
   China, and any signs of a rapprochement between Beijing and Washington
   is likely to earn a frosty response from Moscow.

   Russian media reveled in pouring cold water on the Asia-Pacific
   Economic Cooperation (APEC) summit where Xi and Biden are due to meet
   Wednesday.

   A reporter for Russia's state-run RIA Novosti news agency on Tuesday
   reported that a plenary meeting of the APEC summit chaired by U.S.
   Trade Representative Katherine Tai took place "in a half-empty hall."

   RIA Novosti contrasted its image of a half-empty conference hall with
   the U.S. Trade Representative Tai emphasizing to delegates "how
   important this event is for the United States."

   Read more on the story here: Russia relishes divisions between China
   and the U.S., pouring cold water on Xi-Biden talks

   — Holly Ellyatt
   Wed, Nov 15 20238:05 AM EST

Ukraine asks for 'informational silence' amid 'fluid' fighting on Dnieper
front line

   Ukraine requested an "informational silence," amid fierce fighting on
   the Russian-occupied left (or eastern) bank of the Dnieper River in the
   southern Kherson region.

   "The Russians understand that the advance of the defense forces is
   inevitable, but they cannot calculate from which direction they can
   expect such a danger," Natalia Humeniuk, press officer for Operational
   Command South, said Wednesday in televised comments translated by NBC
   News.

   Russian forces were, she said, "trying to actively defend themselves,
   to actively use heavy artillery, rocket launchers, and aviation as much
   as possible."

   "The pushback from our side is taking place on a line from 3 to 8km [up
   to 5 miles] along the entire coast from the water's edge [of the
   Dnieper River]. The front line is quite fluid today," she said.
   KHERSON OBLAST, UKRAINE - NOVEMBER 05: Destroyed buildings are seen on
   an island in the middle of the Dnieper River in Kherson, Ukraine, Nov.
   5, 2023.
   Anadolu Agency | Anadolu Agency | Getty Images

   "I cannot reveal all the measures we are currently taking, but it is
   obvious that the enemy is being pressed [by our measures]. For now, we
   are asking for informational silence so that our plans are put in
   motion, it will allow us to report on great successes later."

   Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's chief of staff Andriy Yermak
   said Monday that Ukraine's forces had gained a foothold on the left
   side of the river and were looking to advance.

   "Against all odds, Ukraine's defense forces have gained an foothold on
   the left bank of the Dnieper. Step-by-step, we demilitarized Crimea. We
   have covered 70% of the distance," he told the Hudson Institute.

   Russia confirmed the development Wednesday, but said it was pummeling a
   "small group" of Ukrainian troops near the village of Krynky.

   Vladimir Saldo, the Russian-installed governor of the occupied part of
   Kherson, claimed Ukrainian units were now trapped and were being hit
   with "bombs, rockets, ammunition from heavy flamethrower systems,
   artillery shells [and] drones."

   CNBC could not independently verify the reports.

   — Holly Ellyatt
   Wed, Nov 15 20236:02 AM EST

Russia pummels Ukrainian forces that have crossed over the Dnieper River into
occupied territory

   Russian forces are pummeling Ukrainian units that have crossed over the
   Dnieper River to the Russian-occupied left (or eastern) bank of the
   river in Kherson, a Russian-installed official said Wednesday.

   The Kherson area, in southern Ukraine, is partially occupied by Russian
   forces after an offensive to take the city of Kherson last year
   prompted Russian forces to withdraw to the eastern bank of the river.

   Ukraine reported Tuesday that its forces had established a foothold on
   the eastern bank of the river. The announcement could herald the start
   of an advance toward Russian-occupied Crimea, with Ukraine saying on
   Wednesday that it was starting to push back Russian forces.

   "Along the front line, which runs along the Dnipro [the Dnieper
   River]... The pushback from our side is taking place on a line from 3
   to 8 km (2-5 miles) along the entire bank from the water's edge,"
   Natalia Humeniuk, spokesperson for the southern military command, said,
   in comments reported by Reuters.

   "For now, we will ask for informational silence ... which would allow
   us to report later on great successes," she added.
   A Ukrainian serviceman of the 123rd Territorial Defense Brigade stands
   guard on a position next to the Dnieper River, in an undisclosed
   location in the Kherson region, on Nov. 6, 2023, amid the Russian
   invasion of Ukraine.
   Roman Pilipey | Afp | Getty Images

   A Russian-installed official, Vladimir Saldo, said in Google-translated
   comments on Telegram that Ukrainian units had been able to cross the
   river — confirming for the first time that this had taken place — and
   said that initially Ukraine had sent "more manpower than our means of
   destruction were able to destroy."

   "Additional forces have now been brought up," he said, claiming that
   Ukrainian forces were blocked in the village of Krynki where "a fiery
   hell" awaited them. "Bombs, missiles, ammunition from heavy
   flamethrower systems, artillery shells, and drones are flying at him
   [Ukrainian forces] ... Over the last two or three days alone, the
   enemy's total losses amounted to about a hundred militants."
   A group of Ukrainian marines cross the Dnieper River at the frontline
   near Kherson, Ukraine, Oct. 14, 2023.
   Alex Babenko | AP

   Analysts at the Institute for the Study of War noted Tuesday that
   "Ukrainian forces are continuing their own offensive operations and
   making tactical-level gains along the front, particularly in western
   Zaporizhia Oblast [region] and on the east (left) bank of Kherson
   Oblast," the ISW noted.

   "The Russian military command will likely have to decide whether to
   keep certain Russian elements on certain sectors of the front to defend
   against ongoing Ukrainian offensive operations or to redeploy them to
   support offensive operations elsewhere that will likely culminate
   without reinforcements."

   These choices will likely hinder Russia's ability to fully regain the
   initiative in the coming weeks, the ISW said.

   CNBC was unable to verify developments on the ground.

   — Holly Ellyatt
   Thu, Nov 16 20231:30 AM EST

Read CNBC's previous live coverage here:

   Russia says ‘hell’ awaits Ukrainians after confirming they’ve crossed
   the Dnieper River into occupied territory
   logo
     * Subscribe to CNBC PRO
     * Licensing & Reprints
     * CNBC Councils
     * Supply Chain Values
     * CNBC on Peacock
     * Join the CNBC Panel
     * Digital Products
     * News Releases
     * Closed Captioning
     * Corrections
     * About CNBC
     * Internships
     * Site Map
     * Ad Choices
     * Careers
     * Help
     * Contact

     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

News Tips

   Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you.
   Get In Touch

Advertise With Us

   Please Contact Us

CNBC Newsletters

   Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox
   Sign Up Now

   Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and
   services.
   Privacy Policy||CA Notice|Terms of Service

   © 2023 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal

   Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
   Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and
   Analysis.
   Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers

   Data also provided by Reuters

   comscore
