   #Institute for the Study of War RSS publisher

   Skip to main content

   [twitter.gif] [utube.gif]

Search form

   Search _______________
   Search

     * Home
     * Who We Are
     * Research
     * Publications
     * Get Involved
     * Planned Giving
     * Donate

   The Chinese Communist Party's Theory of Hybrid Warfare

   Nils Peterson on the People's Republic of China's theory of hybrid
   warfare.
   If the West Cuts Aid to Ukraine, Russia Will Win. If the West Leans in,
   Ukraine Can Win.

   Fred Kagan writes about why the positional war in Ukraine is not a
   stable stalemate and how the current balance could readily be tipped in
   either direction by decisions made in the West.
   New Interactive Map of Israeli Ground Operations

   ISW and AEI’s Critical Threats Project have launched a high-fidelity
   interactive map of Israeli ground operations in the Israel-Hamas War.
   Russian Regular Ground Forces Order of Battle: Russian Military 101

   By Mason Clark and Karolina Hird

   The first installment of ISW's series on the structure and capabilities
   of the Russian Armed Forces.
   Weakness is Lethal

   Nataliya Bugayova, Kateryna Stepanenko, and Frederick W. Kagan explain
   why Putin invaded Ukraine and how the war must end.
   October 1, 2023

Latest from ISW

Russian Offensive Campaign Assessment, November 26, 2023

   Nov 26, 2023 - ISW Press

   Russian forces conducted a series of Shahed drone strikes on Ukraine on
   the night of November 25-26. Ukrainian military officials reported that
   Russian forces launched nine Shahed-136/131 from Primorsko-Akhtarsk
   direction and that Ukrainian air defenses shot down eight drones.
   Ukrainian Joint Forces Commander Lieutenant General Serhiy Nayev, like
   other Ukrainian officials on November 25, continued to praise the
   actions of Ukrainian mobile fire groups in intercepting Russian drones.
   Nayev stated that mobile fire groups will receive foreign-made
   man-portable air-defense systems (MANPADS) in the near future.

     * Read more about Russian Offensive Campaign Assessment, November 26,
       2023

Iran Update, November 26, 2023

   Nov 26, 2023 - ISW Press

   Neither Israel nor Hamas claimed violations of the humanitarian pause
   in the Gaza Strip as they completed the third swap of Hamas-held
   hostages for Israeli-held prisoners on November 26. Israel and Hamas
   confirmed that Hamas released 17 hostages held in the Gaza Strip in
   exchange for Israel releasing 39 Palestinian prisoners. The hostages
   included the first American whom Hamas has released since the war
   began. Hamas also released a Russian citizen whom they claimed that
   they released because of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s support for
   the Palestinian cause. Russia hosted Hamas leadership in Moscow on
   October 26. Hamas separately said on November 26 that it seeks to
   extend the pause after the four-day period ends on November 27. Israeli
   Army Radio reported that there are efforts to extend the pause by an
   additional four days in return for Hamas releasing 40 hostages. This
   report is consistent with previous reports saying that Israel and Hamas
   agreed to extend the pause for 24 hours for every 10 hostages released
   by Hamas.

     * Read more about Iran Update, November 26, 2023

Russian Offensive Campaign Assessment, November 25, 2023

   Nov 25, 2023 - ISW Press

   Russian forces launched the largest drone strike against Ukraine since
   the start of the full-scale invasion overnight on November 24 to 25
   using a new modification of the Iranian Shahed 131/136 drones.
   Ukrainian military officials reported that Russian forces launched 75
   Shahed drones that mainly targeted Kyiv City from the southeast
   (Primorsko-Akhtarsk) and northeast (Kursk Oblast) and that Ukrainian
   forces shot down 74 drones. Ukrainian military officials also reported
   that Ukrainian forces shot down a Russian Kh-59 cruise missile over
   Dnipropetrovsk Oblast and that air defenses activated in at least six
   regions, including Kyiv, Sumy, Dnipropetrovsk, Zaporizhia, Mykolaiv,
   and Kirovohrad oblasts. Ukrainian Air Force officials stated that
   mobile fire groups enabled Ukrainian forces to shoot down a significant
   number of drones. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky observed that
   Russian forces launched the drone attack on the Ukrainian remembrance
   day of the 1932-1933 Holodomor man-made famine.

     * Read more about Russian Offensive Campaign Assessment, November 25,
       2023

Iran Update, November 25, 2023

   Nov 25, 2023 - ISW Press

   Hamas released a second round of hostages after Hamas accused Israel of
   violating the humanitarian pause agreement and threatened to delay the
   hostages’ release.

   CTP-ISW did not record verifiable reports of kinetic activity inside
   the Gaza Strip or reports of attacks from the Gaza Strip into Israel.

   CTP-ISW recorded nine small arms clashes between Israeli forces and
   Palestinian fighters in the West Bank.

   Palestinian militias are trying to exert greater control over the
   Palestinian population in the West Bank to facilitate further militia
   operations against Israeli targets.

   Israeli and Lebanese Hezbollah (LH) media suggested that LH conducted
   2-3 attacks into northern Israel.

   Iranian-backed Iraqi factions are trying to exploit the Israel-Hamas
   war to erode US military and political influence in Iraq.

   Iran and its Axis of Resistance appear to be continuing to threaten
   Israeli-affiliated commercial shipping.

   The Islamic Resistance in Iraq—a coalition of Iranian-backed Iraqi
   militias—did not claim any attacks against US forces in Iraq or Syria.

     * Read more about Iran Update, November 25, 2023

Iran Update, November 24, 2023

   Nov 24, 2023 - ISW Press

   The Israel–Hamas four-day humanitarian pause went into effect on
   November 24. Israeli forces and Hamas have not claimed attacks in the
   Gaza Strip in accordance with the pause. Israel and Hamas agreed to a
   prisoner/hostage swap but characterized it with different levels of
   detail on November 22. The Qatari Ministry of Foreign Affairs confirmed
   on November 24 that 24 hostages were freed from the Gaza Strip,
   including 13 Israeli citizens, 10 Thai citizens, and one Filipino
   citizen. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said on November 22
   that the deal allows Red Cross representatives to visit hostages in the
   Gaza Strip and deliver medicine. Qatar confirmed that Israel freed 39
   Palestinians from prison in return during the first stage of the swap.

     * Read more about Iran Update, November 24, 2023

Russian Offensive Campaign Assessment, November 24, 2023

   Nov 24, 2023 - ISW Press

   Ukrainian officials reported that Russian forces began a renewed
   offensive effort towards Avdiivka on November 22, although likely with
   weaker mechanized capabilities than in the previous offensive waves
   that occurred in October. Ukrainian Tavriisk Group of Forces Commander
   Brigadier General Oleksandr Tarnavskyi reported on November 23 that
   Russian forces launched a “third wave” of assaults as part of the
   Russia offensive operation in the Avdiivka direction, and Tavriisk
   Group of Forces Spokesperson Colonel Oleksandr Shtupun stated that this
   “third wave” began on November 22. Shtupun reported a 25 to 30 percent
   increase in Russian ground attacks near Avdiivka on November 22 and
   stated that Ukrainian forces repelled several Russian columns of
   roughly a dozen armored vehicles in total during assaults. The
   Ukrainian General Staff reported that Ukrainian forces repelled at
   least 50 Russian assaults in the Avdiivka direction on November 23 and
   24. Russian sources claimed that Russian forces continued offensive
   operations on Avdiivka’s northern and southern flanks but did not
   characterize any Russian assaults as heavily mechanized.

     * Read more about Russian Offensive Campaign Assessment, November 24,
       2023

Support ISW

   Your support makes our work possible, and helps spread a better
   understanding of current conflicts and emerging threats.
   DONATE TO ISW

   [blog-ISW.jpg]

Featured Report

   Ukraine Conflict Updates
   Aug 15, 2022

   This page collects ISW and CTP's updates on the conflict in Ukraine. In
   late February 2022, ISW began publishing daily synthetic products
   covering key events related to renewed Russian aggression against
   Ukraine.

Israel–Hamas War (Iran Updates)

   [Israel-Hamas%20War%20Graphic_3.jpg]

China–Taiwan Weekly Updates

   [MicrosoftTeams-image%20%2826%29.png]

The ISW Briefing Room

   [ISW%20Video%20Series%20Banner_3.jpg]

   1400 16th Street NW, Suite 515 Washington, DC 20036
   ph (202) 293-5550
   ©2007 – 2023 THE INSTITUTE FOR THE STUDY OF WAR
