   Link: canonical
   Link: alternate en
   Skip to main content
   [IMG]

The Columns

     * Deutschland 2030
     * Berlin Cable
     * Pariscope
     * Carbon Critical
     * Indo-Pacific Watch
     * All Columns

The Journal

     * Current Issue
     * All Issues
     * About
     * Contributors
     * All Articles

Social media menu

     * Twitter
   Logo: Internationale Politik
   * * Menu

Main menu

     * Current Issue
     * All Issues
     * Columns
     * About

Breadcrumb

    1. All articles

    IPQ

   Aug 28, 2023
   Aug 28, 2023

                     China, Russia, and the War in Ukraine

   The Sino-Russian relationship has become a more intractable problem for
   the transatlantic alliance. The West should continue to concentrate its
   efforts on Beijing.

   Angela Stent
   Image
   DOCUMENT DATE:  21 March, 2023  Russian President Vladimir Putin and
   Chinese President Xi Jinping arrive for Russia-China talks in an expanded
   format at the Kremlin in Moscow, Russia March 21, 2023.
   License
   All rights reserved
   Copyright owner
   © Sputnik/Alexei Maishev/Kremlin via REUTERS

  Current issue

  Fall 2023 Issue: Toward a Wider and Deeper EU

   View of the European Parliament in Strasbourg, France June 12, 2023
   IPQ 4/2023

  Share

   Before Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24, 2022, the Russia-China
   strategic partnership was becoming increasingly challenging for the United
   States and its allies. But since the war began, Chinese-Russian relations
   have presented more intractable problems for the transatlantic alliance.
   Chinese support for Russia has enabled the Kremlin to continue its
   aggression against Ukraine and has helped solidify the refusal of much of
   the Global South to condemn or sanction Moscow. It has complicated the
   West’s moves to isolate Russia and exclude it from the global economy.
   Conversely, if it so choses, Beijing could play a constructive role in
   mediating between the parties to end this war. But so far China’s vague
   “peace plan” has achieved nothing concrete, and it continues to emphasize
   the importance of its partnership with Russia.

   Since the invasion, China has consistently blamed NATO and the West for
   provoking Russia into launching the attack and not taking Russia’s
   legitimate security interests into account, repeating verbatim Russian
   talking points. It has refrained from calling the conflict a war or saying
   that Russia invaded its neighbor. Russian President Vladmir Putin may very
   well not have told Chinese President Xi Jinping in advance in February
   2022 that this would be a full-scale invasion, as opposed to a
   limited-sounding “Special Military Operation.” But once it started, China
   may have presumed, like many in the West, that the war would be over in a
   few days.

   By now, the Chinese must be taken aback by the below-par performance of
   the Russian military and the brutality of the war, and they may well have
   lost some confidence in Putin’s judgment. But they cannot afford to have
   Russia lose, given the deepening tensions of great power competition.
   While China was silent during the 24-hour mutiny by Evgeny Prigozhin’s
   Wagner group back in June, it must question the dynamics of Kremlin
   politics and wonder how stable the situation really is.

A Key Partner

   Russia remains a key partner for China in its determination to create a
   multipolar world order in which the United States and Europe no longer set
   the agenda or the rules. Russia’s vision of a post-West order is different
   from China’s. President Putin’s Russia promotes a disruptive and anarchic
   world order with no rules. But the nightmare scenario for China would be a
   post-Putin Russia led by a leader who would reassess Russia’s interests
   and decide that it was important to repair relations with the West and
   distance Moscow from Beijing. China’s determination to prevent Russia from
   losing the war and experiencing unpredictable regime change is a constant
   challenge for the US and its allies who are supporting Ukraine. It adds to
   the weight of the other issues that are straining the West’s relationship
   with China.

   Despite the initial “no limits” label, there are indeed limits to this
   partnership. When Xi visited Moscow in March 2023 he praised the
   Russian-Chinese strategic partnership. But he did not meet Russia’s twin
   goals of signing an agreement to build the Power of Siberia II gas
   pipeline or supply lethal weapons to Russia. So far, Beijing has been
   careful not to violate Western sanctions against Russia for fear that it
   would trigger secondary sanctions on China.

   During the summit, Russia commended China’s “objective and unbiased
   position” on Ukraine, including the peace proposal Beijing made in
   February. A separate statement detailed plans to expand bilateral
   investment and trade, including in national currencies, to develop new
   bilateral logistics channels, to expand energy cooperation, and to ensure
   both countries’ supply of “basic goods and mineral resources.”

   Indeed, China’s exports to Russia grew by 67.2 percent in the first half
   of 2023. One reason that China has moved to the fore as the world’s
   leading auto exporter is because it has filled the void left by the
   withdrawal of Western automakers from Russia. Chinese trade with Russia
   has steadily increased since the war began, although it remains much more
   important for Russia than for China. Indeed, Russia is becoming a Chinese
   economic dependency, having lost its natural gas and other markets in
   Europe that were so important for Putin’s rise to power.

   The two countries have also stepped up their military cooperation in the
   past 15 months. China, Russia, and Iran launched joint military exercises
   in March in the Gulf of Oman in the latest sign of Beijing's efforts to
   expand its influence in the Middle East. In June, the Chinese and Russian
   militaries had their sixth joint air strategic patrol in the airspace of
   the Sea of Japan and the East China Sea. Chinese and Russian aircraft
   entered the southern and eastern parts of the South Korean air defense
   identification zone. South Korea scrambled fighter jets after four Russian
   and four Chinese military aircraft entered its air defense zone. Japan
   responded in a similar way after two Russian and two Chinese bombers flew
   over the Sea of Japan to the East China Sea, where two other Chinese
   fighter planes joined. The joint exercises in the Sea of Japan and the
   East China Sea are seen as particularly provocative by the West’s Asian
   allies. China and Russia have also held joint naval exercises with South
   Africa.

Promoting the BRICS

   Since the war began, China and Russia have also redoubled the promotion of
   the multilateral organizations they lead that exclude the West—BRICS and
   the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO). They see these groupings as
   important building blocks for their vision of a post-West multilateral
   global order. Indeed, six countries—Argentina, Egypt, Ethiopia, Iran,
   Saudia Arabia, and the Unitd Arab Emirates—will join BRICS in 2024, as
   announced last week at this year’s BRICS summit in Johannisburg (which
   took place without Putin in attendance); 19 had applied for membership.
   Some of these future members and applicants have close ties to the United
   States, and it is unclear how joining BRICS would impact these ties.

   China and Russia have also emerged as champions of the Global South.
   Russia has reiterated the claim that it is an “anti-imperialist” power and
   that the United States and Europe are the imperialists. Somehow, the
   Soviet Union’s colonial role in Eastern Europe and over non-Russian ethnic
   groups is overlooked. The majority of Global South countries do not view
   Russia’s invasion of Ukraine as part of the Kremlin’s imperialist project
   and many still view Russia as the successor to the USSR, which supported
   anti-colonial movements in the Third World. They believe that Russia has
   done nothing worse than what the United States has done over the past half
   century (Vietnam, Iraq, Afghanistan), and have refused to condemn or
   sanction Russia. India, a partner of the United States in the Quad (with
   Japan and Australia), has made it abundantly clear that Russia remains an
   important economic and strategic partner, even as Prime Minister Narendra
   Modi has warned Putin against making nuclear threats. India’s foreign
   Minister Subrahmanyan Jainshankar has called Russia “a time-tested and
   steady partner.”

European Leverage

   All these developments have made it much more difficult for the West to
   maintain sanctions on Russia. Yet Europe does have some leverage.
   Chinese-American relations deteriorated under the Trump and Biden
   administrations and show few signs of improving. Indeed, the US has
   designated China as the number one threat to its security. It has also
   leaned on its European allies to distance themselves more from China, one
   of their principle economic partners.

   China is still hoping to persuade the Europeans not to take a similar path
   of restrictions and decoupling to that of the United States. Hence the
   “peace plan,” and the belief in some European capitals that these Chinese
   attempts should be encouraged. Of course, the question that no outsider
   can answer is how much clout Xi has with Putin to persuade him to change
   course in Ukraine and agree to come to serious negotiations, rather than
   to continue to bank on the kind of propaganda that Russia launched just
   before the war, declaring it was all the West’s and Kyiv’s fault.

Address Beijing, Not Moscow

   The West has some options in trying to counter the impact of the deepening
   Chinese-Russian relationship on the war in Ukraine. The addressee must be
   China, not Russia, for as long as the war continues. First, China should
   be reminded that supplying lethal weapons to Russia will lead to secondary
   sanctions for China. It should also be made clear—as it already has been
   to the Kremlin—that any use of nuclear weapons by Russia will elicit a
   swift, robust response from NATO. Xi reportedly warned Putin in person
   that the use of nuclear weapons was inadmissible, although it is unclear
   what China would do if Russia were to detonate a tactical nuclear weapon.

   A more challenging task is to engage China, even as Washington’s
   relationship with Beijing is  brittle. Secretary of State Antony Blinken
   and Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen have recently visited Beijing seeking
   to resume a dialogue after the spy balloon incident and a long drought of
   contact. German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and French President Emmanuel
   Macron have also visited. While it may be difficult to persuade China to
   distance itself from Russia, the West should refrain from taking actions
   that push them closer together. Europe is already engaged in a vigorous
   debate about how to deal with China—as Germany’s first China strategy
   paper shows—and, as long as China believes that it can continue to pursue
   profitable and productive ties with Europe it may have incentives to
   continue to play a mediating role between Russia, Ukraine, and Europe.

   There is one area where the US and Europe should be doing more, and that
   is sustained outreach to the Global South. Often these countries’
   neutrality or tacit support for Russia is a product of long-standing
   ideological antipathy to the United States. Moreover, some countries
   understand that, as a result of this war, with shifting coalitions
   emerging, they may have more say in the global order going forward.

   While not countering that view, the West should make a better case for why
   a war far away in Europe does affect their future. If Russia can get away
   with invading and annexing a neighbor’s territory, what does that mean for
   their future sovereignty and territorial integrity? It is better to
   emphasize Russia’s violation of international law than to cast the
   conflict in terms of democracy versus autocracy. China has reiterated its
   commitment to the UN Charter and to states’ territorial integrity and
   sovereignty. Emphasizing that Russia disregards all of these is a first
   step to engaging the Global South in a more productive conversation about
   the war.

   Angela Stent is a senior non-resident fellow at the Brookings Institution
   and a senior advisor to the German Council on Foreign Relations’ (DGAP)
   Center for Eurasian, Russian, and Eastern European Studies. An updated
   edition of her book Putin’s World: Russia Against the West and with the
   Rest was published earlier this year.

   [IMG]
   Angela Stent
     * Load more
   Home

    A Berlin View on Foreign Affairs

Pre footer menu

     * All Articles
     * All Columns

Social media menu

     * Twitter

Footer menu

     * Masthead
     * Data protection
