   Link: publisher
   Skip to main content

   [IMG] [IMG] 

Search form

   Search ________________
   [ Search ]
     * Home
     * Who We Are
     * Research
     * Publications
     * Get Involved
     * Planned Giving
     * Donate
   The High Price of Losing Ukraine

   Military-Strategic and Financial Implications of Russian Victory

   By Frederick W. Kagan, Kateryna Stepanenko, Mitchell Belcher, Noel
   Mikkelsen, and Thomas Bergeron

   The High Price of Losing Ukraine - Part 2

   ISW's Nataliya Bugayova says that if Russia wins in Ukraine, US
   adversaries will learn that the United States can be manipulated into
   abandoning its interests in a winnable fight.

   If the West Cuts Aid to Ukraine, Russia Will Win. If the West Leans in,
   Ukraine Can Win.

   Fred Kagan writes about why the positional war in Ukraine is not a stable
   stalemate and how the current balance could readily be tipped in either
   direction by decisions made in the West.

   New Interactive Map of Israeli Ground Operations

   ISW and AEI’s Critical Threats Project have launched a high-fidelity
   interactive map of Israeli ground operations in the Israel-Hamas War.

   Russian Regular Ground Forces Order of Battle: Russian Military 101

   By Mason Clark and Karolina Hird

   The first installment of ISW's series on the structure and capabilities of
   the Russian Armed Forces.

    Latest from ISW

Russian Offensive Campaign Assessment, December 24, 2023

   Dec 24, 2023 - ISW Press

   European Union (EU) Foreign Affairs High Representative Josep Borrell
   stated that Russian President Vladimir Putin is not interested in a
   limited territorial victory in Ukraine and will continue the war “until
   the final victory.” Borrell reported on December 24 that Putin would not
   be satisfied with capturing a “piece” of Ukraine and allowing the rest of
   Ukraine to join the EU. Borrell added that Putin will not “give up the
   war” and called on the West to prepare for a “conflict of high intensity
   for a long time.” Borrell’s statements are consistent with ISW’s
   assessment that Russia is not interested in a ceasefire or good-faith
   negotiations with Ukraine but retains its maximalist goals of a full
   Russian victory in Ukraine.

     * Read more about Russian Offensive Campaign Assessment, December 24,
       2023

Iran Update, December 24, 2023

   Dec 24, 2023 - ISW Press

   Iran and the Houthis are functioning as a coalition to conduct combined
   military operations targeting international shipping in the Red Sea. Iran
   considers the Axis of Resistance as its unconventional alliance of state,
   semi-state, and non-state actors. Their anti-US and anti-Israeli ideology
   unites the Axis of Resistance, creating strategic alignment across its
   members. Multiple US officials have highlighted the role Iran plays in the
   targeting and execution of Houthi attacks against international shipping.
   Iran provides the weapons and uses advisers on the ground in Yemen and at
   least one spy ship anchored in the Red Sea to support its Houthi partners,
   who execute the attacks based on Iranian advice and intelligence.

     * Read more about Iran Update, December 24, 2023

Iran Update, December 23, 2023

   Dec 23, 2023 - ISW Press

   Iran and its so-called “Axis of Resistance” are signaling their capability
   and willingness to attack maritime targets beyond just the Persian Gulf
   and Red Sea. A one-way drone struck a commercial vessel off the coast of
   India, causing structural damage to the ship, on December 23. The vessel
   is partially Israeli-owned. Israeli media reported that Iran was
   responsible for the attack, which is consistent with the ongoing
   anti-shipping campaign that Iran and the Houthi movement have conducted
   around the Bab al Mandeb in recent weeks. This attack follows the Islamic
   Resistance of Iraq—a coalition of Iranian-backed Iraqi militias—claiming
   on December 22 that it conducted an unspecified attack on a “vital target”
   in the Mediterranean Sea. There is no evidence that the Islamic Resistance
   of Iraq conducted an attack into the Mediterranean Sea at the time of
   writing. The claim, nevertheless, signals the readiness of the Iraqi group
   to participate in the Iran-led attack campaign on maritime targets.
   Finally, a senior commander in Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps
   (IRGC), Brigadier General Mohammad Reza Naghdi, threatened to expand the
   anti-shipping campaign to the Mediterranean Sea and Strait of Gibraltar on
   December 23. Naghdi frequently makes inflammatory threats toward Iranian
   adversaries, but his statement is particularly noteworthy given the drone
   attack off the Indian coast and the claimed attack by the Islamic
   Resistance of Iraq. Iran and its Axis of Resistance are likely messaging
   their capability and willingness to widen geographically their
   anti-shipping attack campaign in response to the United States forming a
   multinational naval task force to safeguard commercial traffic around the
   Red Sea.

     * Read more about Iran Update, December 23, 2023

Russian Offensive Campaign Assessment, December 23, 2023

   Dec 23, 2023 - ISW Press

   The New York Times (NYT) - citing former and current senior Russian, US,
   and international officials - reported that Russian President Vladimir
   Putin is using back channels and intermediaries to signal his interest in
   a ceasefire, despite Putin’s recent public statements to the contrary. NYT
   reported that Western officials have been picking up renewed signals
   through backchannels since September 2023 that Putin is interested in a
   ceasefire that freezes the current frontlines, but noted that Western
   officials warned the backchannels could be “Kremlin misdirection” and may
   not reflect a “genuine willingness” to negotiate. NYT suggested several
   possible motivations Putin may have for his reported interest in a
   ceasefire: the upcoming March 2024 Russian presidential election, a desire
   to “keep his options open” regarding the war’s resolution and take
   advantage of perceived waning Western support for Ukraine, and the
   “distraction” of the Israel-Hamas war. All these motivations reflect
   temporary reasons why Putin might pursue a temporary ceasefire that would
   benefit Russia by allowing Russia the time to prepare for renewed
   aggression against Ukraine, as ISW has routinely assessed. The NYT noted
   that Putin’s public rhetoric, which has recently reasserted Russia’s
   maximalist objectives that are tantamount to full Ukrainian and Western
   surrender, is at odds with Putin’s reported private desire to “declare
   victory and move on.” Neither the NYT nor its sources offered any reason
   to believe Putin’s backchannel communications would be more reflective of
   his goals than his public speeches addressing domestic, Ukrainian, and
   international audiences. The NYT report also failed to make clear whether
   Putin’s alleged interest in a ceasefire is for a temporary pause or a
   permanent end to the war.

     * Read more about Russian Offensive Campaign Assessment, December 23,
       2023

The High Price of Losing Ukraine: Part 2 — The Military Threat and Beyond

   Dec 22, 2023 - ISW Press

   Allowing Russia to win its war in Ukraine would be a self-imposed
   strategic defeat for the United States. The United States would face the
   risk of a larger and costlier war in Europe. The United States would face
   the worst threat from Russia since the collapse of the Soviet Union, as a
   victorious Russia would likely emerge reconstituted and more determined to
   undermine the United States — and confident that it can. A Russian victory
   would diminish America’s deterrence around the world, emboldening others
   with an explicit or latent intent to harm the United States. A Russian
   victory would create an ugly world in which the atrocities associated with
   Russia’s way of war and way of ruling the populations under its control
   are normalized. Most dangerous of all, however, US adversaries would learn
   that they can break America’s will to act in support of their strategic
   interests.

     * Read more about The High Price of Losing Ukraine: Part 2 — The
       Military Threat and Beyond

The Order of Battle of Hamas’ Izz al Din al Qassem Brigades

   Dec 22, 2023 - ISW Press

   This report presents the order of battle (ORBAT) of the al Qassem Brigades
   at the brigade and the battalion level. The lack of adequate reporting on
   Hamas’ units at the company level and below precludes a more detailed
   presentation of those echelons. This ORBAT presents the formal structure
   of the al Qassem Brigades during the Israeli ground operation in Israel.
   The actual structure of the al Qassem Brigades may change as the ground
   operation progresses and Israeli forces destroy Hamas units or render them
   combat ineffective.

     * Read more about The Order of Battle of Hamas’ Izz al Din al Qassem
       Brigades

Support ISW

   Your support makes our work possible, and helps spread a better
   understanding of current conflicts and emerging threats.

   DONATE TO ISW

   [IMG]

Featured Report

   [IMG]
   Ukraine Conflict Updates
   Aug 15, 2022

   This page collects ISW and CTP's updates on the conflict in Ukraine. In
   late February 2022, ISW began publishing daily synthetic products covering
   key events related to renewed Russian aggression against Ukraine.

Israel–Hamas War (Iran Updates)

   [IMG]

China–Taiwan Weekly Updates

   [IMG]

The ISW Briefing Room

   [IMG]

   1400 16th Street NW, Suite 515 Washington, DC 20036
   ph (202) 293-5550
   ©2007 – 2023 THE INSTITUTE FOR THE STUDY OF WAR
