   Link: canonical
   [  ]_____________________
   [ Submit ]
   Responsible Statecraft
   [ Submit ]
   quincyinst.org
   Military Industrial Complex
   Washington Politics
   Media
   Global Crises
   Regions
   EuropeMiddle EastAfricaAsia-PacificLatin AmericaNorth America
   Donate
   [ Submit ]
   _____________________ [  ]
   Donate
   Military Industrial Complex
   Washington Politics
   Media
   Global Crises
   Regions
   EuropeMiddle EastAfricaAsia-PacificLatin AmericaNorth America
   Video
   About Us

Follow us on social

      Stay Responsible. Subscribe for Global Insights

   Invalid email _____________________ Enter your email Subscribe
   _____________________
   Is this the beginning of the end of the war in Ukraine?

            Is this the beginning of the end of the war in Ukraine?

   The Western media is suddenly teeming with signs of fatigue and even ....
   diplomacy?

   Europe
    1. regions europe
    2. ukraine war
   Ted Snider
   Nov 08, 2023

   “I don’t think that [the war] is a stalemate,” Ukrainian president
   Volodymyr Zelensky told NBC News’ Meet the Press on Sunday.

   “They thought they would checkmate us, but,” he insisted, “this didn’t
   happen.” According to recent interviews, his military leadership
   disagrees. His political inner circle thinks his insistence is delusional.

   Zelensky is facing pressure both from within Ukraine and from without.
   Growing pressure from within is coming from both the political and
   military leadership; growing pressure from without is coming from
   Ukraine’s key partners.

   The battle is largely being played out in the Western media. Most
   intimately, Zelensky has faced criticism from his political inner circle.
   TIME magazine reports that some of the president’s advisors have become
   worried that his “belief in Ukraine’s ultimate victory over Russia . . .
   “verg[es] on the messianic.” One of Zelensky’s “closest aides” said that
   Zelensky “deludes himself.” The aide complained, “We’re out of options.
   We’re not winning. But try telling him that.”

   Some Zelensky aides say his intransigence hampers Ukraine’s ability to
   adapt to the changed reality on the battlefield and worry that negotiating
   a settlement with Russia remains “taboo.”

   Domestic criticism is also coming from the top levels of the military.
   Zelensky is reportedly in conflict with his generals over the conduct of
   the counteroffensive and over his demands to defend Bakhmut and Avdiivka
   at any cost, which the military leadership sees as a strategic mistake
   that is already hurting Ukraine dearly in soldiers and equipment.

   A senior Ukrainian military officer said that orders from the president’s
   office are, at times, disconnected from the battlefield reality and
   defended some front-line commanders who have begun second-guessing and
   refusing “orders from the top.”

   Zelensky’s struggle with his generals intensified on November 3 when
   Zelensky fired General Viktor Khorenko, the commander of Ukraine’s special
   operations forces. The commander-in-chief of the Ukrainian army, General
   Valery Zaluzhny, did not request his dismissal. The New York Times reports
   that “It was unclear whether General Zaluzhny, the overall commander of
   Ukraine’s forces, knew in advance of the planned dismissal” and that
   “[t]he firing appeared to undercut General Zaluzhny’s authority.”

   The firing took U.S. military officers, who “described a close and
   effective working relationship with” Khorenko, by surprise. Khorenko’s
   special operations forces had had some success with long-range strikes and
   sabotage operations behind Russian lines. But the NYT reports that there
   had been tension over what the military had “perceived as politically
   guided decisions on strategy” that had been ineffective and costly.

   Zelensky’s tensions with his generals reached a peak with Zaluzhny’s
   November 1 interview with The Economist. He asserted that the war had
   reached a “stalemate.” He conceded that “There will most likely be no deep
   and beautiful breakthrough.”

   What’s worse is that Zaluzhny implied that the stalemate would evolve into
   defeat for Ukraine. A stalemate entails a long war of attrition. In a
   companion essay published simultaneously by The Economist, he explained
   that a long war “as a rule, in most cases, is beneficial to one of the
   parties to the conflict. In our particular case, it is the russian [sic]
   federation, as it gives it the opportunity to reconstitute and build up
   its military power.”

   Zaluzhny said that in a prolonged war, Ukraine will run out of the
   “required volume” of missiles and ammunition while Russia, despite
   sanctions, is increasing its production capabilities. And even if it
   didn’t run out of weapons, he added, it will run out of men: a war of
   attrition “leads to the lack of Ukraine's ability to achieve superiority
   over the enemy in reserves by increasing their number.” A close Zelensky
   aide told TIME that, even if the United States gave Ukraine all the
   weapons it needed, Kyiv doesn’t “have the men to use them.”

   Zelensky’s office censured Zaluzhny, saying it “eases the work” of Russia
   and stirs “panic” among Ukraine’s Western partners. The New York Times
   calls the censure “a striking public rebuke that signaled an emerging rift
   between the military and civilian leadership.”

   In addition to the pressure coming from within Zelensky’s inner political
   and military circle, diplomatic pressure is also coming from Zelensky’s
   international partners.

   A November 3 NBC News article reported that “U.S. and European officials
   have begun quietly talking to the Ukrainian government about what possible
   peace negotiations with Russia might entail to end the war.” The article
   went on to say, citing one current and one former senior U.S. official
   familiar with the discussions, that “the conversations have included very
   broad outlines of what Ukraine might need to give up to reach a deal.”

   The quiet talks suggest agreement by the U.S. and its European allies with
   Zaluzhny that Ukraine may not achieve its goals on the battlefield, that
   the realization of their aspirations may continue to dim with prolonged
   battle, and that some concessions may need to be made.

   There is a remarkable convergence in the language used by the U.S. and
   European officials and the language used by Zaluzhny and Zelensky’s aides.
   NBC reports that the conversations “began amid concerns among U.S. and
   European officials that the war has reached a stalemate.” NBC reports
   that, like Zaluzhny, “[s]ome U.S. military officials have privately begun
   using the term ‘stalemate’ to describe the current battle in Ukraine.”

   Like Zaluzhny and Zelensky’s aides, “Biden administration officials also
   are worried that Ukraine is running out of forces.” According to “people
   familiar with the matter,” NBC reported, “President Joe Biden has been
   intensely focused on Ukraine’s depleting military forces.” “Manpower,” one
   of those sources is quoted as saying, “is at the top of the
   administration’s concerns right now.”

   Echoing the “close Zelensky aide” quoted in TIME, the same source said,
   “The U.S. and its allies can provide Ukraine with weaponry, but if they
   don’t have competent forces to use them it doesn’t do a lot of good.”

   These concerns, NBC reported, have led U.S. officials to concede privately
   that “Ukraine likely only has until the end of the year or shortly
   thereafter before more urgent discussions about peace negotiations should
   begin.”

   That leaves only a couple of months. With the battlefield turning against
   Ukraine despite Zelensky’s intransigent “belief in Ukraine’s ultimate
   victory over Russia,” the pressure targeted at Zelensky seems to be
   building, from both within and without,, to turn to the diplomatic front
   and face the beginning of the end of the war.

   From Your Site Articles
     * Diplomacy Watch: Washington may deny it, but looks like someone wants
       to talk to Russia ›
     * Diplomacy Watch: Ukraine and Russia are (quietly) talking ›
   Related Articles Around the Web
     * Ukraine war latest: Putin 'ready for talks' on post-conflict
       settlement ... ›
     * Former U.S. officials have held secret Ukraine talks with Russians ›

   Dear RS readers: It has been an extraordinary year and our editing team
   has been working overtime to make sure that we are covering the current
   conflicts with quality, fresh analysis that doesn’t cleave to the
   mainstream orthodoxy or take official Washington and the commentariat at
   face value. Our staff reporters, experts, and outside writers offer
   top-notch, independent work, daily. Please consider making a tax-exempt,
   year-end contribution to Responsible Statecraftso that we can continue
   this quality coverage — which you will find nowhere else — into 2024.
   Happy Holidays!

   Ted Snider
   Ted Snider is a regular columnist on U.S. foreign policy and history at
   Antiwar.com and The Libertarian Institute. He is also a frequent
   contributor to Responsible Statecraft and other outlets.

   (shutterstock/Alonafoto)

   Europe
   Did Israel kill Iranian commander to provoke a wider war?

   Senior adviser for Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, Sayyed Razi
   Mousavi, sits next to late Iranian Major-General Qasem Soleimani in an
   unknown location, in this handout image obtained on December 25, 2023.
   Tasnim News/WANA (West Asia News Agency)/Handout via REUTERS

Did Israel kill Iranian commander to provoke a wider war?

   Trita Parsi
   December 26, 2023
   QiOSK

   Iran’s top commander in Syria, Seyed Razi Mousavi, was assassinated Sunday
   by an Israeli airstrike in a Damascus neighborhood, according to Iran’s
   official news agency IRNA and Britain-based opposition war monitor the
   Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.

   This has led Tehran to call for reprisals, ratcheting up fears that this
   might be the match that ignites a wider Middle East war.

   Syria state news did not issue a statement, and Israel has declined
   comment.

   Israel either killed Mousavi as a warning to Iran — given Tehran’s support
   for the Houthis’ attacks on ships in the Red Sea, or as a provocation to
   beget an Iranian response that would give Israel the pretext to enlarge
   the war, or as a preparatory move to enlarge the war regardless of Iran’s
   response. Either one points to trouble.

   The action preceded U.S. airstrikes in Northern Iraq that killed a number
   of Shia militants linked to Kataib Hezbollah, a Shia armed group and its
   affiliates, presumed to be backed by Iran. The strikes, ordered by Biden,
   were in retaliation for an attack on U.S. troops there that led to the
   injuries of three American service members, including one in critical
   condition, according to the Pentagon.

   It is very likely that Israel is behind the assassination of Mousavi since
   it is the only power with both a motive and capacity to pull off such a
   killing — not to mention a long history of assassinating Iranian
   operatives. The U.S. has the capacity but not necessarily the motive. The
   analysis below rests on the rather safe assumption that Mousavi was
   assassinated by Israel.

   U.S. intelligence believes that Iran has been actively involved in the
   Houthi movement’s targeting of ships in the Red Sea, which has effectively
   closed the Bab el-Mandeb Strait for Israel and cost the Israeli economy
   billions of dollars. The Houthis insist they will continue the attacks —
   despite threats of retaliation from the US — until Israel ceases its
   bombardment of Gaza.

   Israel of course refuses, and Biden is loath to press Israel for a
   ceasefire. From Israel’s perspective, Iran is not paying a price for its
   alleged role in the Red Sea attacks. The assassination may, as a result,
   be a warning to Iran that Israel has the capacity and willingness to exact
   a price from Iran — even in areas where the Iranians may have presumed
   that they are safe.

   In a second scenario, the assassination may be a deliberate provocation to
   engender an Iranian response that would give Israel the pretext to enlarge
   the war. While the Biden administration has given Israel the green light
   to bomb Gaza to smithereens, Biden opposes an expansion of the war since
   that very likely could drag the U.S. into it.

   The debate inside the Israeli government is increasingly leaning toward
   expanding the war — they have already mobilized more than 300,000 troops
   and there is a growing belief in Israel that it simply is intolerable for
   Israel to live next to Hezbollah.

   Israel thought it could manage the threat from Hamas — and they couldn’t.
   Even though it wasn’t Hezbollah that attacked Israel on Oct. 7, the
   Israeli argument is that next time it might be Hezbollah, and as a result,
   Israel has no choice but to expand the war. But unless there is an attack
   from Iran or Hezbollah itself, the U.S. may continue to oppose such a
   move.

   But the assassination of Mousavi may cause Iran to retaliate against
   Israel via Hezbollah, the reasoning goes, and Israel can then use
   Hezbollah’s action as a pretext to not only expand the war to Lebanon —
   but also force the U.S. to go along with it.

   There is also a third explanation. According to Amwaj Media, Mousavi was
   in charge of facilitating the entry of Iran-led forces and arms shipments
   to Syria as well as Lebanon’s Hezbollah movement. If Israel intends to
   attack Lebanon, taking out Mousavi could be a logical first step to
   disrupt the arming of Hezbollah as well as its supply lines. As such, the
   assassination may be a preparatory move to enlarge the war regardless of
   Iran’s response to the killing of Mousavi.

   All of these scenarios point to one undeniable reality: As long as Biden
   refuses to pressure Israel to accept a ceasefire in Gaza, tensions in the
   region will continue to rise and the Middle East will gravitate towards a
   regional war that very likely will engulf the U.S. as well. Biden may
   think that he can control these events and allow Israel to slaughter the
   people in Gaza while keeping a lid on the escalation risk.

   He is likely wrong — and the American people may soon find themselves in
   yet another unnecessary war in the Middle East because of Biden’s
   strategic incompetence.

   keep readingShow less
   ||
   Diplomacy Watch: A peace summit without Russia
   Diplomacy Watch: Zelensky goes on the road

Diplomacy Watch: Zelensky says discussion of negotiations ‘not relevant’

   Blaise Malley
   December 22, 2023
   QiOSK

   During a major end-of-year press conference this week, Ukrainian President
   Volodymyr Zelensky said that talking about negotiations with Russia was
   “not relevant” at this time because Moscow has not yet shown any interest
   in ending the war.

   Zelensky said that Ukraine would participate in a fourth round of talks
   with international security officials to discuss Kyiv’s ten-point peace
   plan at the World Economic Forum in Davos early next year.

   “We will work to ensure that this meeting gathers representatives of all
   continents, including the Global South. The last five points of the Peace
   Formula will be worked out at this meeting,” Zelensky said during the news
   conference, held on Tuesday in Kyiv. “The first five points were
   considered by advisers at the previous meeting in Malta at the end of
   October.”

   That meeting in Malta followed previous gatherings in Denmark and Saudi
   Arabia aimed at firming up support for Ukraine’s vision of a settlement
   from the international community. Representatives from many major nations
   have taken part, though Russia has yet to be invited to the meetings.

   “According to Zelensky, after the fourth round Kyiv will work on
   organizing the first inaugural summit at the level of state leaders – the
   Global Peace Summit,” reported the Kyiv Post. “During the event, an
   agreement between the countries on the fundamental provisions, which will
   be embodied in the corresponding document, will be developed. After the
   document is adopted by all states, it can be transferred to the
   representatives of the Russian Federation.”

   “If Russia is ready to accept that document, it will indicate that the
   issue of negotiations is relevant. Today it is not relevant. I don't see
   any request from Russia, I don't see it in their actions. I only see
   arrogance and murder in their rhetoric," Zelensky said.

   During his remarks, the Ukrainian leader made a number of other notable
   remarks, including rejecting the assessment that his troops were losing
   the war, instead maintaining that Moscow had not accomplished any of its
   goals on the battlefield in 2023.

   Zelensky struck an optimistic tone, insisting that the slow-moving aid
   packages from the United States and the European Union would eventually
   come through. ““We are working very hard on it,” he said regarding aid
   from Washington. “I am confident that the United States will not betray us
   and that everything we have agreed on with the U.S. will be fulfilled.”

   The Ukrainian president also said that military advisors told him that
   Kyiv would need to mobilize approximately another 500,000 troops next year
   if it wants to successfully repel Russia’s invasion. Zelensky, however,
   did not commit to the mobilization, saying that the half a million figure
   was a “serious number” and that he would need to hear more arguments in
   favor of the move before making a decision.

   As Connor Echols noted in last week’s edition of Diplomacy Watch, Russian
   President Vladimir Putin held his own major press conference earlier this
   month, in which he “played down his military’s middling performance and
   alleged that Western ‘freebies’ for Ukraine ‘are gradually running out.’”

   This week, Putin claimed that he would be open to negotiations with Kyiv
   and its Western supporters, but offered no details and said that Moscow
   “will not give up what is ours."

   In other diplomatic news related to the war in Ukraine:

   — President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said that Turkey would be prepared to
   ratify Sweden’s bid for membership in NATO once the U.S. Congress agrees
   to the sale of F-16 fighter jets to Ankara. “Positive developments from
   the United States regarding the F-16 issue and Canada keeping its promises
   will accelerate our parliament’s positive view on [Sweden’s membership,]”
   Erdogan said. “All of these are linked.” Turkey has held up Sweden’s bid
   to join NATO for over a year.

   —The U.S. Congress officially went home for the year this week without
   approving the emergency supplemental package that includes $61 billion in
   aid for Kyiv. The chances that the Senate would reach a compromise on the
   spending bill appeared slim in recent weeks, and despite some last-minute
   maneuvering, leadership eventually decided to punt on the legislation
   until next year. Punchbowl News published a timeline on Wednesday
   detailing how Washington — and the Republican Party in particular — has
   steadily grown skeptical on funding Ukraine in the nearly two years since
   Russia’s invasion.

   —The Associated Pressreports that the mood among Ukrainian forces has
   become increasingly gloomy this winter as they revert toward a more
   defensive position and as the lack of both manpower and firepower become
   more evident. “Despite a disappointing counteroffensive this summer and
   signs of wavering financial support from allies, Ukrainian soldiers say
   they remain fiercely determined to win,” the report reads. “But as winter
   approaches, they worry that Russia is better equipped for battle and are
   frustrated about being on the defensive again in a grueling war. Some
   doubt the judgment of their leaders.”

   U.S. State Department news:

   During a press briefing on Tuesday, State Department spokesperson Matthew
   Miller was asked if the administration had any “outside of the box” plans
   for funding Ukraine if Congress did not approve the aid package.

   “There is no magic pot of funding that we have available to draw on if
   Congress doesn’t pass this bill. That’s not how government funding works.
   There is a – there are funding streams that we can draw on,” he said. “We
   have used those funding streams. We have nearly exhausted them, and over
   the next few weeks, we’ll fully exhaust them, and that’s why we need
   Congress to act.”

   keep readingShow less
   Chill, Xi Jinping did not announce an invasion of Taiwan

   Chinese President Xi Jinping (Shutterstock/Alexander Khitrov) and
   President Joe Biden (Luca Perra/Shutterstock)

Chill, Xi Jinping did not announce an invasion of Taiwan

   Branko Marcetic
   December 21, 2023
   Asia-Pacific

   As U.S.-China tensions have risen the past few years, several U.S. and
   Taiwanese officials have made alarming warnings that Beijing will launch
   an invasion of the island by 2027 or as early as 2025, potentially
   triggering a disastrous war between the two powers.

   So NBC News’ report Wednesday filling in some of the details of the
   November meeting between President Joe Biden and Xi Jinping should have
   been a cause for hope that this conflict could be avoided. According to
   the report, Xi told Biden that Beijing plans to reunify China and Taiwan
   and that it prefers to do so peacefully — the position China has held for
   decades, and which has helped lay the basis for peaceful relations between
   the two states.

   Maybe more importantly, Xi assured the U.S. president that predictions of
   an impending invasion of Taiwan “were wrong because he has not set a time
   frame,” NBC News reported.

   In other words, Xi reiterated that he remained committed to long-standing
   Chinese policy that had underwritten decades of peace and regional
   stability, and that contrary to some headline-grabbing speculation, there
   were no plans to change that anytime soon. It should have inspired a
   collective sigh of relief from all those concerned about the security of
   Taiwan, let alone anyone worried about a direct U.S.-China war.

   But tell that to the hawks who dominate U.S. discourse on China, who
   quickly seized on the report to irresponsibly make the exact opposite
   claim: That Xi’s statement was tantamount to a declaration of war.

   Sen. Lindsey Graham immediately called the report “beyond unnerving,” and
   said it would inspire him to link up with senators to ply Taiwan with more
   military aid and weapons and to “draft pre-invasion sanctions from hell”
   against China — both actions that Beijing could view as provocative. GOP
   presidential candidate Nikki Haley charged that according to the report,
   “Xi Jinping told Joe Biden that China will take Taiwan” and that as a
   result, the United States needs “a president who will stand up to our
   enemies,” rather than treat such an announcement as “business as usual,”
   as Biden allegedly had.

   Other lawmakers had similar reactions. “Xi Jinping wants to take Taiwan.
   The United States must project strength,” wrote Rep. Mark Green, who
   chairs the House Committee on Homeland Security and sits on the House
   Foreign Affairs Committee. “Xi Jinping feels emboldened enough by
   President Biden’s weakness to tell him to his face that Communist China
   believes that it’s only a matter of time before they take Taiwan,” wrote
   Sen. Katie Boyd Britt, ranking member of the Senate Homeland Security
   Committee. “It’s time to replace appeasement with deterrence.”

   Other China hawks, like former Donald Trump advisor Elbridge Colby, former
   Josh Hawley advisor and current Heritage Foundation policy advisor Alex
   Velez-Green, journalist Bari Weiss, and former National
   Counterintelligence and Security Center Director William Evanina, spun the
   story in a similar fashion. The latter painted a particularly alarmist
   picture, warning that “China will first paralyze the U.S. with cyber
   attacks on critical infrastructure resulting in panic and little appetite
   to assist Taiwan.”

   Readers glancing at some of the headlines of the stories re-reporting the
   NBC news would come away with the same kind of impression — that Xi had
   effectively told Biden that a Chinese invasion of Taiwan was inevitable in
   a major show of disrespect:

     * “Xi warned Biden he plans to take Taiwan — by any means necessary”
       (New York Post)
     * “Xi straight-up told Biden that China is going to take over Taiwan:
       report” (Business Insider)
     * “China Will Take Taiwan, Xi Warned Biden During Meeting” (Washington
       Free Beacon)
     * “Xi Told Biden To His Face That Beijing Will Reunify Taiwan With
       China: REPORT” (Daily Caller)
     * “Xi warned Biden during summit that Beijing will reunify Taiwan with
       China” (MSNBC News)

   One Bloomberg News anchor, meanwhile, called it a “nightmare scenario” and
   a “bombshell story.”

   This confusion about the meaning of Xi’s reported comments appeared to
   extend to the very reporters who broke the story. The NBC report frames
   the remarks as part of a trend of “saber-rattling” by the Chinese
   president on Taiwan, while one of the reporters on the byline, Kristen
   Welker, said in a TV appearance that the statement “lands differently when
   [Xi] is speaking to a president and against the background of these
   tensions” and when “the whole purpose of this meeting was to bring down
   the temperature.”

   Yet if anything, Xi’s words should have served that very purpose of
   lowering tensions, by denying U.S. suspicions of a planned Chinese
   invasion in the next few years.

   It’s a measure of the anti-China climate in Washington that a story about
   the Chinese president effectively tamping down recent alarming headlines
   in the United States about impending war was widely painted by
   commentators and politicians as the exact opposite — and used to justify
   still more policies of deterrence instead of diplomacy.

   keep readingShow less

Israel-Gaza Crisis

   Will the human rights movement survive the Gaza war?
   Middle East

Will the human rights movement survive the Gaza war?

   Connor Echols
   December 21, 2023
   In Gaza, the next generation of radicalization begins
   Middle East

In Gaza, the next generation of radicalization begins

   Branko Marcetic
   December 20, 2023
   History shows Israel may never win a 'war of occupation'
   Middle East

History shows Israel may never win a 'war of occupation'

   Marshall Poe
   December 19, 2023
   Where did Hamas come from and what does it want?
   Middle East

Where did Hamas come from and what does it want?

   Emile Nakhleh
   December 18, 2023
   Are Israel and the United States on a collision course?
   Middle East

Are Israel and the United States on a collision course?

   Daniel Brumberg
   December 16, 2023
   US lawmaker: Backing Israel is the 'path of least resistance'
   Washington Politics

US lawmaker: Backing Israel is the 'path of least resistance'

   Eli Clifton
   December 15, 2023

Newsletter

   By subscribing to our recent updates, you will gain access to a wealth of
   valuable information, including breaking news, expert analysis, and
   thought-provoking articles. Whether you are interested in science,
   technology, business, health, or any other field, our updates will keep
   you informed and engaged.

   Invalid email _____________________ Enter your email Subscribe
   _____________________

Latest

   Biden
   Washington Politics

Biden's 2023 foreign policy was a bust

   Daniel Larison
   December 26, 2023
   Is carnage in Gaza bringing Iran and Saudi Arabia closer?
   Middle East

Is carnage in Gaza bringing Iran and Saudi Arabia closer?

   Giorgio Cafiero
   December 26, 2023
   Attacks on Red Sea shipping pay dividends for Yemen’s Houthis
   Middle East

Attacks on Red Sea shipping pay dividends for Yemen’s Houthis

   Michael Horton
   December 26, 2023
   An anti-war pope confronts a world in turmoil
   Global Crises

An anti-war pope confronts a world in turmoil

   Connor Echols
   December 25, 2023
   Houthi rivals in Yemen want to exploit Red Sea rift
   Middle East

Houthi rivals in Yemen want to exploit Red Sea rift

   Neil Partrick
   December 23, 2023
   Yes Micronesia, there is a Santa Claus. Sort of.
   Asia-Pacific

Yes Micronesia, there is a Santa Claus. Sort of.

   Kenneth Gofigan Kuper
   Robert Underwood
   Leland Bettis
   December 22, 2023
   About UsPrivacy PolicyPitchRS@quincyinst.org

   ©2023 Quincy Institute for Responsible Statecraft, Inc. All Rights
   Reserved.

      Get stories worth sharing delivered to your inbox

   Invalid email _____________________ Enter your email Signup
   _____________________

Follow

   ©2023 Quincy Institute for Responsible Statecraft, Inc. All Rights
   Reserved.
