   Education
   Sign In
   Menu
   Donate

ENCYCLOPEDIC ENTRY

ENCYCLOPEDIC ENTRY

                                      War

                                      War

   War is generally defined as violent conflict between states or nations.

  Grades

   5 - 8

  Subjects

   Social Studies, Civics

   Image

      Tank in Iraq Invasion

   A United States Army 3rd Infantry Division M1/A1 Abrahms tank during
   the 2003 invasion of Iraq. While the use of force was authorized by
   Congress, like many U.S. military conflicts, war was not declared.

     Photograph by Scott Nelson/Getty Images

   A United States Army 3rd Infantry Division M1/A1 Abrahms tank during
   the 2003 invasion of Iraq. While the use of force was authorized by
   Congress, like many U.S. military conflicts, war was not declared.
   [ Submit ][ Submit ][ Submit ][ Submit ]
   ArticleVocabulary

   War is generally defined as violent conflict between states or nations.

   Nations go to war for a variety of reasons. It has been argued that a
   nation will go to war if the benefits of war are deemed to outweigh the
   disadvantages, and if there is a sense that there is not another mutually
   agreeable solution. More specifically, some have argued that wars are
   fought primarily for economic, religious, and political reasons. Others
   have claimed that most wars today are fought for ideological reasons.

   In the United States, the legal power to declare war is vested in
   Congress; however, the president is the commander-in-chief of the
   military, so he or she holds power to conduct a war once it has been
   declared. In many instances, the president has used military force without
   declaring war.

   Just War Theory

   In Western tradition, there is a sense that the reasons for war must be
   just. This idea dates back to ancient times, but is most clearly traced to
   the writings of St. Augustine and St. Thomas Aquinas. They attempted to
   justify war, and reconcile it with the Christian belief that taking a
   human life is wrong.

   To Aquinas, a war must be just in both the reasons for going to war and
   how war is fought. Reasons for going to war—jus ad bellum—are just if (1)
   war is declared by an appropriate authority; (2) the war is waged for a
   just cause; and (3) the war is waged for just intentions. An appropriate
   authority is a proper, governing authority. A “just cause” may include
   self-defense or a response to injustice. “Just intentions” mean that it
   must not be fought for self-interest, but for justice or a common good. In
   addition, (4) there must be a reasonable chance of success; (5) the good
   that will be achieved must outweigh the bad; and (6) war must be a last
   resort.

   Once just reasons for going to war are satisfied, conduct in the war—jus
   in bello—must be just as well. Just conduct in a war means that it must be
   specific and proportional. That is, noncombatants and civilians must not
   be deliberately targeted. Further, only such force as is necessary must be
   used, and harms must be proportionate to the goal sought.

   Law of War

   Some of the just war theories have been adopted as parts of international
   agreements and incorporated into the law of war (i.e., international law)
   that regulates the resort to armed force, the conduct of hostilities, and
   the protection of war victims.

   The Geneva Conventions, for example, are a series of international
   treaties that are designed to protect noncombatants, civilians, and
   prisoners of war. The treaties were negotiated in Geneva, Switzerland,
   between 1864 and 1977. The First and Second Geneva Conventions apply to
   sick and wounded soldiers and sailors. They contain provisions related to
   protecting the wounded and sick, as well as medical personnel and
   transports. The Third Geneva Convention applies to prisoners of war, and
   the Fourth Geneva Convention applies to people in occupied territories.
   The Third Convention requires humane treatment of prisoners, including
   adequate food and water. The Fourth Convention includes provisions that
   forbid torture and the taking of hostages, as well as provisions related
   to medical care and hospitals.

      Credits

        Media Credits

   The audio, illustrations, photos, and videos are credited beneath the
   media asset, except for promotional images, which generally link to
   another page that contains the media credit. The Rights Holder for media
   is the person or group credited.

        Director

   Tyson Brown, National Geographic Society

        Author

   National Geographic Society

        Production Managers

   Gina Borgia, National Geographic Society
   Jeanna Sullivan, National Geographic Society

        Program Specialists

   Sarah Appleton, National Geographic Society, National Geographic Society
   Margot Willis, National Geographic Society

        Producer

   Clint Parks

        Intern

   Roza Kavak

        other

        Last Updated

   October 19, 2023

      User Permissions

   For information on user permissions, please read our Terms of Service. If
   you have questions about how to cite anything on our website in your
   project or classroom presentation, please contact your teacher. They will
   best know the preferred format. When you reach out to them, you will need
   the page title, URL, and the date you accessed the resource.

        Media

   If a media asset is downloadable, a download button appears in the corner
   of the media viewer. If no button appears, you cannot download or save the
   media.

        Text

   Text on this page is printable and can be used according to our Terms of
   Service.

        Interactives

   Any interactives on this page can only be played while you are visiting
   our website. You cannot download interactives.

  Related Resources

   National Geographic Headquarters
   1145 17th Street NW
   Washington, DC 20036

        ABOUT

   National Geographic SocietyNatGeo.comNews and ImpactContact Us

        Explore

   Our ExplorersOur ProgramsEducationNat Geo LiveStorytellers
   CollectiveTraveling Exhibitions

        Join Us

   Ways to GiveApply for a GrantCareers
   donate
   get updates

        Connect

   National Geographic Society is a 501 (c)(3) organization. © 1996 - 2023
   National Geographic Society. All rights reserved.

   Privacy Notice|Sustainability Policy|Terms of Service|Code of Ethics
