   EPA-EFE/Mikhail Metzel/Kremlin pool/Sputnik
   Ukraine: Russia’s losses mount – but self-sacrifice in war is part of the
                              country’s mythology
--
    1. [IMG] Ben Soodavar
       Researcher, Department of War Studies, King's College London
  Disclosure statement
--
   region is the latest illustration of just how much the conflict in Ukraine
   is becoming a war of attrition. Russia’s push to mount a new offensive in
   the east has resulted in substantive “personnel losses” for its military.
--
   to live a tale of self-induced suffering. Even just considering the past
   century, military losses during the second world war and in Afghanistan –
   followed by the loss of a sense of identity after the collapse of the
--
   value the liberal west places on the individual subject.
   For Russia, every dead soldier in Ukraine constitutes a step towards
   victory and reclaiming the great power image of the country’s Soviet past.
--
   be closely tied to nationalist ideas of pride and superiority. They
   pervaded propaganda posters during the “great patriotic war”.
   Image of 'For the Motherland' 1942 Russian propaganda poster by Aleksei
--
   campaign in Afghanistan. She recalled how in one interview an artillery
   soldier described war as “a spiritual experience”, while referencing the
   self-sacrifice of the Red Army during the great patriotic war.
   This experience of spirituality through war not only reflects how Russians
   seek to replay and become part of the past, but speaks to the religious
--
   up.
     …if a person dies in the performance of this duty [war], then they have
     undoubtedly committed an act equivalent to sacrifice. They will have
--
   Deciphering this internal logic governing the way many Russians deal with
   loss is imperative to the west’s understanding of the Ukraine war. Putin
   draws on a language of sacrifice which has its cultural and historical
--
   Russian psyche.
   The death of that body is for Russia a step towards achieving the fantasy
   of national prestige. For some Russians (by no means all), the trauma of
--
     * Russia
     * World War II
     * Vladimir Putin
