   Aug 28, 2023
                     China, Russia, and the War in Ukraine
   The Sino-Russian relationship has become a more intractable problem for
--
  Current issue
  Fall 2023 Issue: Toward a Wider and Deeper EU
   View of the European Parliament in Strasbourg, France June 12, 2023
--
   strategic partnership was becoming increasingly challenging for the United
   States and its allies. But since the war began, Chinese-Russian relations
   have presented more intractable problems for the transatlantic alliance.
--
   Conversely, if it so choses, Beijing could play a constructive role in
   mediating between the parties to end this war. But so far China’s vague
   “peace plan” has achieved nothing concrete, and it continues to emphasize
--
   legitimate security interests into account, repeating verbatim Russian
   talking points. It has refrained from calling the conflict a war or saying
   that Russia invaded its neighbor. Russian President Vladmir Putin may very
--
   limited-sounding “Special Military Operation.” But once it started, China
   may have presumed, like many in the West, that the war would be over in a
   few days.
   By now, the Chinese must be taken aback by the below-par performance of
   the Russian military and the brutality of the war, and they may well have
   lost some confidence in Putin’s judgment. But they cannot afford to have
--
   distance Moscow from Beijing. China’s determination to prevent Russia from
   losing the war and experiencing unpredictable regime change is a constant
   challenge for the US and its allies who are supporting Ukraine. It adds to
--
   withdrawal of Western automakers from Russia. Chinese trade with Russia
   has steadily increased since the war began, although it remains much more
   important for Russia than for China. Indeed, Russia is becoming a Chinese
--
Promoting the BRICS
   Since the war began, China and Russia have also redoubled the promotion of
   the multilateral organizations they lead that exclude the West—BRICS and
--
   important economic and strategic partner, even as Prime Minister Narendra
   Modi has warned Putin against making nuclear threats. India’s foreign
   Minister Subrahmanyan Jainshankar has called Russia “a time-tested and
--
   to continue to bank on the kind of propaganda that Russia launched just
   before the war, declaring it was all the West’s and Kyiv’s fault.
Address Beijing, Not Moscow
   The West has some options in trying to counter the impact of the deepening
   Chinese-Russian relationship on the war in Ukraine. The addressee must be
   China, not Russia, for as long as the war continues. First, China should
   be reminded that supplying lethal weapons to Russia will lead to secondary
--
   to the Kremlin—that any use of nuclear weapons by Russia will elicit a
   swift, robust response from NATO. Xi reportedly warned Putin in person
   that the use of nuclear weapons was inadmissible, although it is unclear
--
   ideological antipathy to the United States. Moreover, some countries
   understand that, as a result of this war, with shifting coalitions
   emerging, they may have more say in the global order going forward.
   While not countering that view, the West should make a better case for why
   a war far away in Europe does affect their future. If Russia can get away
   with invading and annexing a neighbor’s territory, what does that mean for
--
   step to engaging the Global South in a more productive conversation about
   the war.
   Angela Stent is a senior non-resident fellow at the Brookings Institution
