   the 2003 invasion of Iraq. While the use of force was authorized by
   Congress, like many U.S. military conflicts, war was not declared.
     Photograph by Scott Nelson/Getty Images
--
   the 2003 invasion of Iraq. While the use of force was authorized by
   Congress, like many U.S. military conflicts, war was not declared.
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
--
   War is generally defined as violent conflict between states or nations.
   Nations go to war for a variety of reasons. It has been argued that a
   nation will go to war if the benefits of war are deemed to outweigh the
   disadvantages, and if there is a sense that there is not another
   mutually agreeable solution. More specifically, some have argued that
   wars are fought primarily for economic, religious, and political
   reasons. Others have claimed that most wars today are fought for
   ideological reasons.
   In the United States, the legal power to declare war is vested in
   Congress; however, the president is the commander-in-chief of the
   military, so he or she holds power to conduct a war once it has been
   declared. In many instances, the president has used military force
   without declaring war.
   Just War Theory
   In Western tradition, there is a sense that the reasons for war must be
   just. This idea dates back to ancient times, but is most clearly traced
   to the writings of St. Augustine and St. Thomas Aquinas. They attempted
   to justify war, and reconcile it with the Christian belief that taking
   a human life is wrong.
   To Aquinas, a war must be just in both the reasons for going to war and
   how war is fought. Reasons for going to war—jus ad bellum—are just if
   (1) war is declared by an appropriate authority; (2) the war is waged
   for a just cause; and (3) the war is waged for just intentions. An
   appropriate authority is a proper, governing authority. A “just cause”
--
   success; (5) the good that will be achieved must outweigh the bad; and
   (6) war must be a last resort.
   Once just reasons for going to war are satisfied, conduct in the
   war—jus in bello—must be just as well. Just conduct in a war means that
   it must be specific and proportional. That is, noncombatants and
--
   Law of War
   Some of the just war theories have been adopted as parts of
   international agreements and incorporated into the law of war (i.e.,
   international law) that regulates the resort to armed force, the
   conduct of hostilities, and the protection of war victims.
   The Geneva Conventions, for example, are a series of international
   treaties that are designed to protect noncombatants, civilians, and
   prisoners of war. The treaties were negotiated in Geneva, Switzerland,
   between 1864 and 1977. The First and Second Geneva Conventions apply to
--
   to protecting the wounded and sick, as well as medical personnel and
   transports. The Third Geneva Convention applies to prisoners of war,
   and the Fourth Geneva Convention applies to people in occupied
