   EPA-EFE/Mikhail Metzel/Kremlin pool/Sputnik
Ukraine: Russia’s losses mount – but self-sacrifice in war is part of the
country’s mythology
--
    1. Ben Soodavar
       Researcher, Department of War Studies, King's College London
Déclaration d’intérêts
--
   region is the latest illustration of just how much the conflict in
   Ukraine is becoming a war of attrition. Russia’s push to mount a new
   offensive in the east has resulted in substantive “personnel losses”
--
   considering the past century, military losses during the second world
   war and in Afghanistan – followed by the loss of a sense of identity
   after the collapse of the Soviet empire in 1991 – have all come to
--
   the value the liberal west places on the individual subject.
   For Russia, every dead soldier in Ukraine constitutes a step towards
   victory and reclaiming the great power image of the country’s Soviet
--
   to be closely tied to nationalist ideas of pride and superiority. They
   pervaded propaganda posters during the “great patriotic war”.
   Image of 'For the Motherland' 1942 Russian propaganda poster by Aleksei
--
   campaign in Afghanistan. She recalled how in one interview an artillery
   soldier described war as “a spiritual experience”, while referencing
   the self-sacrifice of the Red Army during the great patriotic war.
   This experience of spirituality through war not only reflects how
   Russians seek to replay and become part of the past, but speaks to the
--
   Russian men to join up.
     …if a person dies in the performance of this duty [war], then they
     have undoubtedly committed an act equivalent to sacrifice. They will
--
   Deciphering this internal logic governing the way many Russians deal
   with loss is imperative to the west’s understanding of the Ukraine war.
   Putin draws on a language of sacrifice which has its cultural and
--
   spiritual in the Russian psyche.
   The death of that body is for Russia a step towards achieving the
   fantasy of national prestige. For some Russians (by no means all), the
--
     * Russia
     * World War II
     * Vladimir Putin
