     * The Qatargate Files
     * Israel-Hamas war
     * COP28
     * War in Ukraine
     * EU-China
--
   Opinion
                  Israel-Hamas conflict is the West’s war too
   Patience and tolerance toward a radical ideology that doesn’t recognize
   the legitimacy of your way of life is the greatest enemy of peace and
--
   East, Hamas and Islamic Jihad decided to use the entity as a launching pad
   for their armies to wage their war against Israel.
   In the past decades and elsewhere in the Middle East (Lebanon, Yemen and
--
   another country. They control every aspect of the territory they occupy
   and exploit resources and civilian populations for their war effort. This
   is the phenomenon of a terrorist state.
--
   an act of state madness, aside from the utter immorality of mass murder
   and rape. It is not rational to start an all-out war against a much
   stronger country. But their rationale is different. It is fanatical.
--
   According to the charter, Jews, in their minds, are responsible for every
   war or destructive historical event, including those where Jews themselves
   were victims. Among the events, the French Revolution, the Communist
   Revolution, the First and Second World Wars, the founding of the League of
   Nations (to control the world), and the establishment of the UN.
--
   peace and security unless under the control of Islam.
   There is only one way to deal with terror states. Total war that ends with
   the destruction of the regime and its military capabilities — like the war
   the United States led against ISIS or like the Second World War. Truth be
   told, you cannot wipe out an ideology — after all, there are still Nazis
--
   Israel is certainly not the end game as far as radical Islam is concerned.
   And Israel’s war against radical Islam is also the West’s war — even if it
   refuses to acknowledge that.
--
   cities with participants baying for the destruction of the Jewish state.
   Israel has no choice but to inflict an absolute defeat on Hamas. This war
   comes after six previous military rounds when Israel didn’t utilize its
--
   missile, and mortar fire on their homes.
   The war being waged by radical Islam against the West and its values is
   only at its start. Al-Qaeda, ISIS and Hamas are the opening chapters in a
   war against the West and its values. In fact, radical Islam already has a
   grip on many European cities.
--
   you.
   Patience and tolerance towards a radical ideology that doesn’t recognize
   the legitimacy of your way of life is the greatest enemy of peace and
--
   there must be a willingness to stand up and fight for it against its foes.
   Israel’s war against Hamas is crucial to the safety and security of its
   citizens but not only to them. It is also vital to the security of the
--
   Related Tags
   Israel-Hamas war Middle East Military
   Related Countries
