     * (BUTTON) The silent years, 1910–27
          + Pre-World War I American cinema
          + Pre-World War I European cinema
          + D.W. Griffith
          + Post-World War I European cinema
               o Germany
               o The Soviet Union
          + Post-World War I American cinema
     * (BUTTON) The pre-World War II sound era
          + Introduction of sound
--
               o India
     * (BUTTON) The war years and post-World War II trends
          + Decline of the Hollywood studios
--
   Quizzes
   USA 2006 - 78th Annual Academy Awards. Closeup of giant Oscar statue at
   the entrance of the Kodak Theatre in Los Angeles, California. Hompepage
--
   Home Entertainment & Pop Culture Movies
The war years and post-World War II trends
Decline of the Hollywood studios
--
   (more)
   During the U.S. involvement in World War II, the Hollywood film
   industry cooperated closely with the government to support its war-aims
   information campaign. Following the declaration of war on Japan, the
   government created a Bureau of Motion Picture Affairs to coordinate the
--
   xenophobia and jingoism with titles such as The Devil with Hitler and
   Blondie for Victory (both 1942), Hollywood’s wartime films became
   increasingly serious as the war dragged on (Fritz Lang’s Hangmen Also
   Die, Jean Renoir’s This Land Is Mine, Tay Garnett’s Bataan, all 1943;
--
   produced documentaries for government and military agencies. Among the
   best-known of these films, which were designed to explain the war to
   both servicemen and civilians, are Frank Capra’s seven-part series Why
--
   (Read Alfred Hitchcock’s 1965 Britannica essay on film production.)
   When World War II ended, the American film industry seemed to be in an
   ideal position. Full-scale mobilization had ended the Depression
   domestically, and victory had opened vast, unchallenged markets in the
   war-torn economies of western Europe and Japan. Furthermore, from 1942
   through 1945, Hollywood had experienced the most stable and lucrative
--
   The American film industry’s various problems and the nation’s general
   postwar disillusionment generated several new film types in the late
   1940s. Although the studios continued to produce traditional genre
--
   develop thought-provoking or perverse stories reflecting the
   psychological and social problems besetting returning war veterans and
   others adapting to postwar life. Some of the American cinema’s grimmest
   and most naturalistic films were produced during this period, including
