   Ukraine Can Win.
   Fred Kagan writes about why the positional war in Ukraine is not a stable
   stalemate and how the current balance could readily be tipped in either
--
   ISW and AEI’s Critical Threats Project have launched a high-fidelity
   interactive map of Israeli ground operations in the Israel-Hamas War.
   Russian Regular Ground Forces Order of Battle: Russian Military 101
--
   stated that Russian President Vladimir Putin is not interested in a
   limited territorial victory in Ukraine and will continue the war “until
   the final victory.” Borrell reported on December 24 that Putin would not
--
   Ukraine to join the EU. Borrell added that Putin will not “give up the
   war” and called on the West to prepare for a “conflict of high intensity
   for a long time.” Borrell’s statements are consistent with ISW’s
--
   anti-shipping campaign to the Mediterranean Sea and Strait of Gibraltar on
   December 23. Naghdi frequently makes inflammatory threats toward Iranian
   adversaries, but his statement is particularly noteworthy given the drone
--
   ceasefire that freezes the current frontlines, but noted that Western
   officials warned the backchannels could be “Kremlin misdirection” and may
   not reflect a “genuine willingness” to negotiate. NYT suggested several
--
   ceasefire: the upcoming March 2024 Russian presidential election, a desire
   to “keep his options open” regarding the war’s resolution and take
   advantage of perceived waning Western support for Ukraine, and the
   “distraction” of the Israel-Hamas war. All these motivations reflect
   temporary reasons why Putin might pursue a temporary ceasefire that would
--
   Putin’s alleged interest in a ceasefire is for a temporary pause or a
   permanent end to the war.
     * Read more about Russian Offensive Campaign Assessment, December 23,
--
   Dec 22, 2023 - ISW Press
   Allowing Russia to win its war in Ukraine would be a self-imposed
   strategic defeat for the United States. The United States would face the
   risk of a larger and costlier war in Europe. The United States would face
   the worst threat from Russia since the collapse of the Soviet Union, as a
--
   victory would create an ugly world in which the atrocities associated with
   Russia’s way of war and way of ruling the populations under its control
   are normalized. Most dangerous of all, however, US adversaries would learn
--
   key events related to renewed Russian aggression against Ukraine.
Israel–Hamas War (Iran Updates)
   [IMG]
